Detection of protein-protein interactions has previously been a balance between specificity ( background reduction ) and affinity ( detection of weak interactions ) .	fact
Recently , the introduction of stable isotope labeling ,	none
to distinguish specific from unspecific interaction partners ( Blagoev et al , 2003 ; Ranish et al , 2003 )	none
Based on this principle , we have developed a proteomic screen for peptide motif-based interactions ( Schulze and Mann , 2004 ) .	method
Using synthetic peptide pairs in phosphorylated and unphosphorylated form	method
, pull-down experiments are performed to enrich specific binding partners to the phosphorylated bait peptides .	method
These proteins are subsequently identified and quantified by mass spectrometry .	method
In this study , by further method development , we greatly increased the throughput of the analysis allowing	method
us to profile the entire phosphotyrosine interactome of the ErbB-receptor family	method

Two recent reports suggested a correlation between p130CAS phosphorylation level and cell migration rate .	result
In both studies , a kinase was transfected in the cells .	method
One used v-Src , for which p130CAS is a direct substrate ( Fincham and Frame , 1998 ) ,	fact
while the other overexpressed FAK , that , once activated , binds both c-Src and its substrate p130CAS ( Cary et al. , 1998 )	result
In both studies , hyperphosphorylation of p130CAS was associated with an increase in rate of migration .	result
Since p130CAS is a substrate for PTP-PEST ( Garton et al. , 1996 )	result
, removal of this PTP results in hyperphosphorylation of p130CAS ( Cote et al. , 1998 ) .	result
We decided	goal
to investigate whether the absence of this PTP would result in a change in the motility of these cells	goal
The two cell lines used were heterozygous and homozygous for the PTP-PEST deletion .	method
To minimize any dominant negative effects from the targeted allele	method
, comparisons were made between the homozygous and the heterozygous cell lines .	method

It has been proposed	hypothesis
that the C. elegans Ror protein CAM-1 has tyrosine kinase-independent functions [ 42 , 44 ] and that Xenopus XRor2 can function in the absence of its cytoplasmic domain [ 45 ]	hypothesis
We thus created a membrane-tethered variant of mRor2 ( mRor2-GPI )	method
to assay whether mRor2 could still function in the absence of its transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains	goal
Expression of mRor2-GPI reduced Wnt5a 's ability to inhibit Wnt3a-induced STF reporter activation	result
when transfected into 293 cells as compared to cells transfected with the reporters alone ( Figure 6D )	method
In addition , when Ror2-GPI was transfected into cells in conjunction with wild-type mRor2 , mRor2-GPI blocked wild-type mRor2 's enhancement of Wnt5a-mediated inhibition ,	result
suggesting that the membrane-tethered variant of mRor2 serves as a dominant negative	implication
The fact that expression of mRor2-GPI alone did not enhance Wnt5a-mediated inhibition indicates	result
that the cytoplasmic , and potentially the transmembrane , domain is required for mRor2 to carry out its inhibitory function	implication

Here , we present results of the first modification-dependent protein interaction study involving systematic profiling of binding sites of a whole receptor subfamily .	result
For many receptors ,	problem
the physiological phosphorylation sites are not well documented	problem
The relatively high throughput of our screen allowed systematic study of all tyrosine sites , without	method
making prior assumptions about the baits or their potential interaction partners	method
In particular , we wanted	goal
to demonstrate that the throughput of the method is sufficiently high , so that no information about the phosphorylation status ( i.e	goal
in vivo phosphorylated or not ) needed	goal
to be taken into account	goal
Therefore , we chose	method
to study potential interaction partners to all cytosolic tyrosine residues of the ErbB-receptor family in their phosphorylated form in a systematic and unbiased approach	method
Altogether , we analyzed all 94 pairs of synthetic singly phospho- , nonphospho- and doubly phosphopeptides to a total of 89 cytosolic tyrosine residues in the four receptors EGFR , ErbB2 , ErbB3 and ErbB4 .	method

Each cell lysate was first precleared with GST	method
alone to eliminate nonspecific binding ( see Materials and Methods )	method
0.5 mg of the remaining proteins was then incubated with each GST-fusion protein	method
and the bound proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE ( Fig . 6 ) .	method
Between the PTP-PEST ( +/- ) and ( -/- ) cell lines , the greatest difference in affinity is observed between the SH2 domain of Src and p130CAS and , to a lesser extent , between the SH2 domain of Crk and p130CAS ,	result
strongly suggesting that the tyrosines within these SH2-binding domains on p130CAS are hyperphosphorylated	implication
The other lanes show a small and fairly constant ( ~50 % ) increase in affinity ,	result
that may or may not be indirect	implication
The exact tyrosines	fact
that are hyperphosphorylated on paxillin and FAK	fact
They may not be found in putative SH2-binding domains , but can play other roles in focal adhesion turnover .	fact

One of the simplest assays	method
to qualitatively compare cell migration	goal
Fibroblast monolayers plated on fibronectin-coated slides were wounded at 37degreesC and fixed after 24 h. Fig .	method
2 shows a typical region of the wound for each cell line obtained after five independent experiments	result
The PTP-PEST ( +/- ) cells were able	result
to migrate into the wound at a rate greater than the front of cells pushed in by proliferation ( Fig . 2 b ) , whereas the ( -/- ) cells showed a complete absence of chemokinetism ( Fig . 2 d ) and were not able to actively invade the wounded area	result

In addition to activation of IKK , the TRIF-dependent TLR pathway stimulates the activity of IKK-related kinases , IKKepsilon and TBK1 .	fact
To further investigate the signaling mechanism of Peli1	goal
, we examined its role in the activation of IKKepsilon induced by poly ( I : C ) and LPS .	method
In contrast to the activation of IKK , the activation of IKKepsilon downstream of both poly ( I : C ) and LPS was similar in Peli1-/- and Peli1+/+ MEFs ( Fig . 4f ) .	result
Thus , Peli1 plays a selective role in	implication
regulating IKK-NF-kappaB activation by TLR3	implication

To determine whether Wnt5a protein inhibits beta-catenin signaling via the direct activation of intracellular Ca 2+ flux downstream of heterotrimeric G proteins	goal
, 293 cells transiently transfected with the STF reporter were treated with 50 ng/ml W3a protein and increasing doses of Wnt5a protein following 24-h pretreatment with vehicle or 100 ng/ml ( 0.1 muM ) PTX .	method
that Wnt5a protein-mediated inhibition of the STF reporter was not affected by PTX treatment	result
The PTX used was active in these cells , as lysophosphatidic acid ( LPA )	result
treatment of cells following pretreatment with PTX was unable to stimulate the phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein	result
These data are consistent with Topol et al .	result
s [ 16 ] findings	result
that overexpression of a dominant negative version of CamKII , and treatment of cells with a specific inhibitor of CamKII , does not perturb Wnt5a-mediated inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in 293 cells	result

To test whether endogenous Rac1 binds to endogenous beta-P	goal
we performed pull-down assays with the biotinylated Crib domain of Pak1 (Price et al., 2003).	method
This domain binds activated Rac from stimulated cells	fact
cells and was used instead of specific anti-Rac1 antibodies	method
because these are directed against the Rac1 COOH terminus.	fact
These experiments were performed with cell lysates derived from cells in suspension or adherent to	method
collagen	method
to induce Rac1 activation (Price et al., 1998).	goal
We found that endogenous beta-Pix coprecipitated with the Crib domain of Pak1 in lysates from the adherent cells (i.e., where Rac1 was activated) but not in lysates from the cells in suspension (Fig. 1 D).	result
The latter finding also excludes the possibility that beta-Pix interacts with the Pak-Crib domain directly.	implication
In addition, pull-down assays with GST-Rhotekin or GST-Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein, which bind active Rho or Cdc42, respectively, did not show any interaction with beta-Pix (not depicted).	result

Standard readouts for the activity of various Wnt family members include an increase in the level of the beta-catenin protein and the activation of reporter genes , in particular , the Topflash reporter	result
that contains TCF binding sites upstream of a luciferase transgene	fact
We found	result
that when transiently transfected into 293 cells , the SuperTopflash ( STF ) luciferase reporter variant [ 30 ] is robustly activated in response to Wnt3a treatment and exhibits dose-dependency	result
As shown in Figure1B , Wnt3a protein treatment induces a 100-fold increase in reporter activation and a linear dose response	result
when the concentration is lowered	method
In accordance with other groups , we observe that Wnt5a protein by itself does not lead to the activation of the STF reporter in 293 cells	result
, nor does it alter levels of beta-catenin protein ( Figures 1C and 2A ) [ 16 , 31 ] .	result
Based on reports from Ishitani et al . and others [ 14 , 17 , 32 , 33 ] , we then tested	hypothesis
whether the addition of Wnt5a protein could inhibit Wnt3a-induced reporter activity	hypothesis
Using a concentration of Wnt3a protein within the linear range of reporter activation ( 50 ng/ml )	method
, Wnt5a protein was added to cells concomitantly with Wnt3a .	method
, Wnt5a elicits a dose-responsive decrease in Wnt3a-mediated reporter activation .	result

Grb2 has two SH3 domains.	fact
Because the influence of p66shc on the binding partners of sos1 was dependent on putative SH3 binding proline residues in the CH2 domain,	result
we investigated to determine whether grb2 binds to the CH2 domain via a proline-SH3 interaction.	goal
Full-length grb2 associated with p66shcCH2 in vitro (Fig. 4 A).	result
In comparison, the binding of p66shcCH2 with mutations at prolines 47 and 50 (p66shcCH2P47A/P50A) to grb2 was much weaker,	result
confirming the importance of these proline residues to this association.	implication
Moreover, comparison of the NH2- and COOH-terminal SH3 (N- and C-SH3, respectively) domains of grb2	method
revealed that p66shcCH2 preferentially bound to the C-SH3 domain,	result
suggesting sequence-specific requirements for the binding of p66shcCH2 to SH3 domains.	implication
In vitro binding assays using full-length grb2, C-sos1, and p66shcCH2	method
showed a reciprocal relationship between C-sos1 and p66shcCH2 with respect to binding to grb2 (Fig. 4, B and C).	result
C). Semiquantitative analysis revealed that	method
C-sos1 bound with much greater affinity to grb2 than did p66shcCH2 (compare Fig. 4, B and C).	result
Moreover, when compared with p66shcCH2, p66shcCH2P47A/P50A was a much weaker competitor of C-sos1 (Fig. 4 C).	result
These findings suggest that C-sos1 and p66shcCH2 compete for binding to grb2, with C-sos1 having a significantly higher in vitro binding affinity than p66shcCH2, and that integrity of prolines 47 and 50 within p66shcCH2 is necessary for it to effectively compete with sos1.	implication
In vivo, with overexpression of grb2 and p66shcCH2, there was a weak association between the two proteins (Fig. 4 D).	result

We then tested the effect of LMB on the nuclear export of MAPK .	method
In 3Y1 cells ,	result
MAPK translocated to the nucleus within 5 min after stimulation with TPA	result
When LMB was added 5 min after TPA stimulation ( i.e. , when nuclear translocation of MAPK was achieved )	result
, subsequent nuclear export of MAPK was strongly inhibited ( Fig . 2 , TPA+LMB ) .	result
Similar results were obtained in A6 cells ( data not shown ) .	result
As LMB is a specific inhibitor of NES receptor ( Fornerod et al . 1997 ; Fukuda et al . 1997b ; Ossareh-Nazari et al . 1997 ; Wolff et al . 1997 )	fact
, it is suggested that the nuclear export of MAPK is mediated by the NES-dependent active transport mechanism .	hypothesis

ErbB3 contains three pairs of tyrosine residues	fact
that are separated by one glutamic acid residue comprising Y1197 and Y1199 , Y1222 and Y1224	fact
These Y-E-Y motifs were not found in any of the other ErbB-receptors ,	fact
suggesting that these regions may perhaps have specific interaction partners also in the doubly phosphorylated state , or that double phosphorylation enhances or abolishes interaction of proteins in the singly phosphorylated peptides	implication
To investigate this question , we used the Y-E-Y regions as bait peptides in unphosphorylated , singly phosphorylated and doubly phosphorylated states , with cell lysates	goal
that were metabolically labeled with either 12C6-arginine ( Arg0 ) , 13C6-arginine ( Arg6 ) or 15N4 13C6-arginine ( Arg10 ) and used in pull-down experiments with unphosphorylated , singly phosphorylated and doubly phosphorylated bait peptides	method

Most SH3 domains bind to proline-rich sequences containing a core XPxXP element (where P = proline, X = hydrophobic residue, and x = any amino acid), with the prolines in the peptide core making direct contact with the hydrophobic pocket of the SH3 domain.	fact
The CH2 domain of p66shc has one putative SH3 binding core element encompassing residues 46-50 (46LPPLP50).	fact
We determined the importance of this motif in p66shc-stimulated rac1 activity.	goal
A mutant of p66shc in which prolines 47 and 50 were changed to alanine (p66shcP47A/P50A) was generated.	result
In contrast to p66shcWT, expression of p66shcP47A/P50A in p66shc -/- MEF did not rescue rac1 activity (Fig. 1 A) or rac1-specific GEF activity of sos1 (Fig. 1 B),	result
suggesting that proline-mediated interactions play an important role in mediating these functions of p66shc.	hypothesis

Nuclear translocation of MAPK is transient ,	fact
although the duration time in the nucleus varies depending on the cell types and the stimuli used	fact
Thus , nuclear MAPK should relocalize to the cytoplasm .	fact
However , it is also possible	fact
that nuclear MAPK is degraded and newly synthesized MAPK appears in the cytoplasm	fact
To test this possibility	goal
, we examined the effect of a protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( CHX ) on the relocalization of MAPK to the cytoplasm .	method
In A6 cells , nuclear accumulation of MAPK ( Xenopus MPK1 = ERK2 ) is most strongly induced after 4 h of stimulation with 10 % FCS .	result
Subsequent serum removal triggers appearance of MAPK in the cytoplasm and disappearance of nuclear MAPK .	result
CHX was added to the cultures 4 h after stimulation with serum .	method
After a 10-min incubation ,	method
cells were deprived of serum in the presence of CHX	method
The indirect immunostaining of endogenous MAPK demonstrated	result
that MAPK relocalized to the cytoplasm even in the presence of CHX ( Fig . 1 )	result
Therefore , relocalization of nuclear MAPK to the cytoplasm is mediated by a nuclear export mechanism , not by synthesis of MAPK in the cytoplasm .	implication

To produce a null mutation in the mouse APG5 gene	goal
, we targeted the mouse APG5 gene of R1 ES cells , using a targeting vector shown in Fig . 1 A .	method
subjecting an APG5+/- ES clone ( # 33 ) to growth selection in an elevated concentration of G418	method
, three Apg5-deficient ( APG5-/- ) clones ( A11 , B19 , and B22 ) were obtained ( Fig . 1 B ) .	method
An anti-Apg5 antibody recognized a 56-kD protein in the wild-type ES cells ( Fig . 1 C ) .	result
In addition , a very faint band at 30 kD , corresponding to Apg5 monomer , was observed .	result
The 56-kD band was also reactive with anti-mouse Apg12 antibodies ( data not shown ) .	result
These data suggest	implication
that Apg5 exists almost completely in the Apg12-conjugated form in the wild-type ES cells .	implication
The amount of the Apg12-Apg5 conjugate decreased in the heterozygous ( APG5+/- ) mutant , and was not detected at all in the three independent APG5-/- clones ( Fig . 1 C ) .	result
Taken together , these data confirm	implication
that the targeted ES cells contain a null mutation in the APG5 gene .	implication

Grb2 was also found to bind sequences	result
that deviate from the strict target sequence pY-X-N. Our experiments suggest the more generalized consensus motif pY- [ phiQ ] - [ NQFDK ] , where phi is a hydrophobic residue	result
Binding of Grb2 to motifs deviating from the pY-X-N sequence has previously been noted ( Songyang et al , 1994 ; Ward et al , 1996 ) .	result
To describe Grb2 binding preferences	goal
, we compared ion intensities in extracted ion chromatograms of identical tryptic peptides of Grb2 from pull-down experiments with different phosphotyrosine residues ( Figure 3 ) .	method
For the same mass spectrometric conditions , peptide ion signals from the same tryptic peptide in different experiments are indicative of the abundance of these peptides in different samples , a fact	fact
that is , for example , used in Protein Correlation Profiling ( Andersen et al , 2003 )	method

We then asked	hypothesis
whether TRF2 overexpression inhibited other ATM-dependent readouts of the DNA damage response .	hypothesis
ATM phosphorylates and stabilizes p53 in response to DNA damage ( reviewed in Kastan and Lim 2000 ) .	fact
Quantitative immunoblotting showed	result
that cells overexpressing TRF2 had a diminished ability to induce p53 after irradiation ( Figures 2A and 2B ) .	result
Both the relative level of p53 protein and the induction of its downstream targets p21 , Bax , and Hdm2 were dampened .	result
By contrast , the p16/Rb pathway was not affected by TRF2 ( Figure 2A ) .	result
We also examined the phosphorylation of Nbs1 on S343 , a target of ATM ( Gatei et al . 2000 ; Lim et al . 2000 ; Wu et al . 2000 ; Zhao et al . 2000 ) .	method
Phosphorylation of this residue causes a change in electrophoretic mobility shift and can also be detected	result
using an antibody specific for the phosphorylated form of Nbs1 .	result
Extracts from irradiated control cells showed the previously reported retardation of Nbs1 and its reactivity with the S343-P-specific Nbs1 antibody ( Figure 2C ) .	result
Both alterations could be reversed by phosphatase treatment of the Nbs1 immunoprecipitations ( IPs ) .	result
In contrast , irradiation did not appear	result
to induce phosphorylation of Nbs1 in cells overexpressing TRF2 , indicating that TRF2 diminished the ATM-dependent phosphorylation of Nbs1 ( Figure 2C ) .	result

Interaction of phosphotyrosine peptides with Grb2 , Shc or PI3K were dependent on specific consensus sequences	result
that have been well documented	result
The protein Shc ,	none
which contains a PTB-domain and an SH2-domain	none
The majority of Shc-binding sites conformed to the typical N-P-X-pY recognition motif for the PTB domains ( Gustafson et al , 1995 ) .	result
However , an alignment of the sequences around five Shc-binding sites revealed no conserved N-terminal motif .	result
Instead , we found	result
a consensus sequence pY- [ KR ] -X- [ LI ] involving a basic residue neighboring the phosphotyrosine and a hydrophobic residue at position +3 ( Figure 2 )	result
Since PTB domains have recognition sequences N-terminal to pY and SH2 domains have C-terminal binding motifs ( Yaffe , 2002 )	fact
, Shc is likely to bind these bait peptides through its SH2 domain .	hypothesis
A consensus binding motif for the Shc SH2-domain of pY-phi-X- [ LI ] , with strongest selection on the position +3 has been described in pool-sequencing experiments ( Songyang et al , 1994 ) .	result
However , our results indicate	implication
that the strong selection of position +3 alone comprising the motif pY-X-X- [ LI ] is not sufficient to specify binding of endogenous Shc , as Shc did not bind to pY915 , pY978 of EGFR , pY8O3 , pY923 of ErbB2 , pY912 , pY975 , pY1307 of EbB3 or pY921 , pY984 of ErbB4 , which have a pY-X-X- [ LI ] sequence	implication
Supporting evidence for our motif also comes from experiments	result
that demonstrated binding of recombinant SH2 domain of Shc to phosphopeptides containing the pY- [ KR ] -X- [ LI ] sequence around pY727 and pY998 of EGFR	result

PAG Forms a Complex with Csk ,	none
which is Functionally Relevant to TCR/CD3 Signaling .	none

To understand the physiological function of Peli1 in immune regulation	goal
, we performed studies using Peli1-/- mice .	method
These mutant mice were generated	method
using conventional targeting strategy , in which coding exons 1 and 2 were replaced with a lacZ/neomycin cassette ( Supplementary Fig . 1 )	method
The Peli1 homozygous knockout ( Peli1-/- ) mice were viable and did not display overt abnormalities in growth and survival .	result
The development of thymocytes appeared	result
to be normal , as Peli1-/- and Peli1+/+ mice produced comparable frequencies of CD4+ and CD8+ single-positive cells and CD4+CD8+ double-positive cells ( Supplementary Fig . 2 )	result
The number of T cells was also normal in the spleen of Peli1-/- mice ( data not shown ) .	result
Similarly , the Peli1 deficiency did not cause obvious defect in the generation of B cells .	result
Follicular and marginal zone B cells were present in comparable percentages in Peli1-/- and Peli1+/+ mice ( Supplementary Fig . 2 ) .	result
Thus , Peli1 appears	implication
to be dispensable for the development of immune cells	implication

Wnt5a 's inhibitory activity was also tested in another cell line , mouse L cells .	method
Whereas Wnt5a protein treatment in parental 293 cells robustly inhibits the Wnt3a-mediated activation of the STF reporter	result
, Wnt5a treatment has little to no inhibitory affect in L cells ( Figure 6B ) .	result
To assess whether this is due to reduced expression of mRor2	goal
, L cells were transfected with mRor2 and then treated with Wnt proteins .	method
shown in Figure 6B , when mRor2 is overexpressed	method
Again , mRor2 expression has no inhibitory effect on Wnt3a-stimulated reporter activation in the absence of Wnt5a .	result
Although Wnt5a is able to activate the luciferase reporter in L cells stably expressing mFz4 and transiently transfected with LRP5	result
, mRor2 cotransfection effectively inhibits Wnt5a 's canonical signaling ability ( Figure 6B ) .	result

To further establish role of c-Src in phosphorylation of IQGAP1	goal
we show that in SYF knockout cells where Src family kinases (Yes, Fyn and Src) are absent, IQGAP1 is not tyrosine phosphorylated in response to activation of VEGFR-2, where re-introduction of c-Src rescued phosphorylation of IQGAP1 by VEGFR-2 (Figure 5E).	result
Our further studies showed that in an in vitro kinase assay recombinant c-Src protein phosphorylates GST-fusion IQGAP1 (data not shown).	result
Taken together, the data support the hypothesis that IQGAP1 directly associates with c-Src and undergoes c-Src-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation.	implication
Hence to further establish as to whether c-Src interacts with IQGAP1	goal
we tested the ability of SH2 and SH3 domains of c-Src to associate with IQGAP1 in an in vitro pull-down assay.	method
The result showed that SH2 domain of c-Src interacts with IQGAP1 independent of its tyrosine phosphorylation	implication
since SH2 domain of c-Src forms a complex with IQGAP1	result
prior to stimulation of cells with ligand (Figure 5H).	method
Additional analysis using PAE cells null for chimeric VEGFR-2	method
revealed that indeed association of SH2 domain of Src with IQGAP1 is independent of VEGFR-2 (data not shown).	result
In contrast to the SH2 domain, the SH3 domain of c-Src failed to interact with IQGAP1 with or without stimulation of VEGFR-2 (Figure 5I).	result
The data suggest that SH2 domain mediates the interaction of c-Src with IQGAP1 by a novel mechanism that is independent of tyrosine phosphorylation of IQGAP1.	implication

To evaluate whether the sole activation of the p42/p44 MAPK signaling module is sufficient to promote nuclear translocation of p42/p44 MAPK	goal
, we have taken advantage of a fibroblastic cell line CCL39-DeltaRaf-1 : ER ( 28 ) stably expressing the chimera DeltaRaf-1 : ER ( 43 , 44 ) .	method
Upon addition of beta-estradiol to these cells , the Raf-1 kinase moiety of the chimera is unmasked and rapidly phosphorylates MEK ,	fact
which in turn activates p42/p44 MAPK ( 28 ) .	fact
As shown in Fig . 2 A	result
, serum stimulation retards the electrophoretic mobility of p42 MAPK ( due to phosphorylation ) .	result
This activation observed	result
after 15 min persists for up to 6 h , declines after 9 h , and is not detectable at 12 h when cells enter S-phase ( Fig . 2 A ) .	result
In sharp contrast , activation of the same cells with estradiol induces a gel mobility shift	result
that persists as long as the cells are treated with estradiol ( Fig . 2 B ) .	result
In this experiment , only p42 MAPK is detected because of the specificity of the antibody used .	result
However , activation of p44 MAPK ( revealed with a less selective anti-MAPK antibody ) parallels activation of p42 MAPK .	result
The CCL39-DeltaRaf-1 : ER cell line offers two unique advantages .	method
First , by its specific activation , downstream of Raf , estradiol exclusively turns on the p42/p44 MAPK module with no detectable activation of JNK or p38 MAPK within the first 16-24 h ( 33 and data not shown ) .	result
Second , in contrast	result
to serum activation that leads to the time-dependent desensitization of p42/p44 MAPK	result
One can therefore easily manipulate the temporal activation of p42/p44 MAPK by	method
adding beta-estradiol or the MEK inhibitor PD 98059 .	method
It was therefore of interest	goal
to compare the p42/p44 MAPK translocation in cells stimulated with either serum or beta-estradiol .	goal

In the later part of the study , we employed	method
a linear ion trap Fourier transform mass spectrometer ( LTQ-FT , ThermoFinnigan )	method
This instrument has significantly higher	method
sequencing speed and peptide mass accuracy , which resulted in significantly higher quality data	method

One possible explanation for the observed abrogation of reporter activation is	implication
that Wnt5a protein competes with Wnt3a for Fz receptor binding sites	implication
Alternatively , Wnt5a has been proposed	hypothesis
to inhibit canonical Wnt signaling via upregulation of Siah-2 , which targets beta-catenin for betaTrCP-independent proteasomal degradation [ 16 ]	hypothesis
In both of these models , beta-catenin protein levels should be reduced following concomitant Wnt5a treatment compared to Wnt3a protein treatment alone ;	hypothesis
in the former case , signal transduction is blocked at the level of the receptor , whereas in the latter , any beta-catenin protein stabilized due to Wnt3a signal activation should be appreciably degraded by the opposing effects of Wnt5a	hypothesis

Next we analyzed the effect of Peli1 deficiency on TLR-mediated gene induction in vitro .	method
For these studies , we prepared primary murine embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ) from Peli1+/+ and Peli1-/- littermate embryos ( dissected from the same pregnant females ) .	method
Stimulation of Peli1+/+ MEFs by LPS and poly ( I : C ) led to the induction of Tnf gene expression ( Fig . 2a ) .	result
Consistent with the in vivo studies , induction of Tnf by both LPS and poly ( I : C ) was severely inhibited in the Peli1-/- MEFs .	result
Peli1 was also essential for LPS- and poly ( I : C ) -stimulated expression of another proinflammatory gene , IL-12p40 ( Fig . 2a ) .	result
On the other hand , Peli1 is not a universal signaling component of the TLR pathway ,	implication
as it was not required for LPS- and poly ( I : C ) -stimulated expression of IFN-beta and an IFN-responsive gene , Cxcl10 , which encodes the interferon-inducible protein-10 ( IP-10 ) 28 ( Fig . 2a )	result
Real-time PCR and ELISA studies using bone marrow derived	result
macrophages revealed that Peli1 was critical for IL-12p40 induction by LPS and poly ( I : C ) and was partially required for IL-12p40 induction by CpG ( Fig . 2b , c )	result
In addition , in bone marrow-derived dendritic cells and B cells , poly ( I : C ) -stimulated proinflammatory gene expression was severely attenuated in the absence of Peli ( Fig . 2d , e ) .	result
However , Peli1 deficiency did not appreciably affect gene induction by several other TLR ligands , including Pam3CSK4 ( TLR1-TLR2 ) , R837 ( TLR7 , TLR8 ) , and MALP2 ( TLR2-TLR6 ) ( Supplementary Fig . 4 ) .	result
Thus , Peli1 is required for pro-inflammatory cytokine gene induction predominantly by LPS and poly ( I : C ) .	implication

We purified the Wnt5a protein from cells overexpressing the mouse Wnt5a gene using methods derived from those developed for other members of the Wnt family with	method
several modifications ( Figure1A ) [ 27 ]	method
Throughout the purification , we followed the Wnt5a protein	method
using an antibody that detects Wnt5a on a Western blot	method
Later steps in the purification were also monitored by activity assays (	method
To unambiguously identify the purified protein as the product of the Wnt5a gene	goal
, we determined the amino-terminal sequence .	method
We found	result
that the mature protein starts with a sequence IIGAQPLCSQLAGLSQGQKKL , a sequence beginning 62 amino acids downstream from the predicted initiator methionine of Wnt5a and 24 amino acids from the predicted signal cleavage site between amino acids 37 and 38 [ 28 ]	result
While all Wnt proteins contain signal sequences required for secretion from cells	fact
, generally they are not internally cleaved at a site downstream from the signal sequence .	result
The exception , interestingly , is the Drosophila ortholog of Wnt5a ;	method
DWnt5 protein is made as a precursor of more than 1,000 amino acids weighing 140 kDa and cleaved into a smaller mature protein of 80 kDa [ 29 ]	method
It is not known	problem
whether the processing of the Wnt5a molecule involves specific proteases	problem

To determine whether Wnt5a protein can inhibit Wnt3a-mediated STF reporter activation in 293Fz4 cells , 293 and 293Fz4 cells were transiently transfected with the STF reporter and then treated with Wnt proteins over the course of 24 h.	method
Whereas Wnt5a protein potently inhibits the STF reporter in parental 293 cells , Wnt5a no longer inhibits Wnt3a-induced reporter activation in 293Fz4 cells ( Figure 4C )	result
This effect was specific to mFz4 ,	result
as stable expression of mFz8 was not sufficient to abrogate Wnt5a-mediated inhibition of STF reporter activation ( Figure 4D )	result
Additionally , Wnt5a does not stabilize beta-catenin protein in the presence of mFz8 ( unpublished data ) .	result
Thus , specifically in the context of mFz4 and LRP5 expression , Wnt5a is unable	implication
to inhibit Wnt3a-mediated beta-catenin signaling	implication

To further link Src kinase activity to phosphorylation of Y1173 of VEGFR-2,	goal
we tested the phosphorylation of Y1173 of VEGFR-2 in the triple knockout SYF (c-Src, c-Yes and c-Fyn) cells [24].	method
The data showed that stimulation of SYF cells ectopically expressing chimeric VEGFR-2 (CKR) with ligand increases phosphorylation of Y1052.	result
In contrast, phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 at Y1173 was almost undetectable (Figure 3L and 3M).	result
Only a long exposure of the film detected a weak phosphorylation of Y1173 (data not shown),	result
suggesting that in addition to Src kinases, VEGFR-2 itself also catalyzes phosphorylation of Y1173 of VEGFR-2.	implication
Since in the recent years various Src inhibitors were used for therapeutic purposes in cancer and anti-angiogenesis treatments [25],	implication
we tested the effect of Src-specific inhibitor, SU6656 to inhibit phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 at Y1173.	goal
The result showed that SU6656 selectively inhibits phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 at Y1173 in a dose-dependent manner but had no effect on the phosphorylation of Y1052 (Figure 3O, 3P).	result
The quantification of inhibition of phosphorylation of Y1173 of VEGFR-2 by SU6656 also is shown (Figure 3R).	result
Taken together, the data demonstrate that Src kinases upon activation by VEGFR-2 phosphorylate Y1173 of VEGFR-2 (Figure 3S).	implication

Previous studies have suggested	implication
that nuclear entry of MAPKK is enhanced in a stimulus-dependent manner , although in normal conditions it is not apparent since MAPKK is immediately exported to the cytoplasm by means of its NES ( Jaaro et al . 1997 ; Tolwinski et al . 1999 )	implication
This possible mechanism is consistent with our idea of MAPKK shuttling .	implication
To examine the possible involvement of active nuclear import mechanisms in the regulated nuclear entry of MAPKK , we used beta-gal-MAPKK	goal
in which beta-galactosidase is fused to the NH2 terminus of MAPKK to make MAPKK too large to pass through a nuclear pore by diffusion	fact
As shown in Fig . 3 C , beta-gal-MAPKK did not translocate to the nucleus even in the presence of LMB and the stimulus	result
that activates the MAPK cascade	result
In fact , cooling of cells or deprivation of ATP induced nuclear entry of MAPKK ( Adachi et al . 1999 ; data not shown ) .	result
This also supports our idea	implication
that MAPKK enters the nucleus constantly by passive diffusion and is always exported actively by the NES-dependent , active mechanism	implication

An overview of the distribution of the interaction partners of the different members of the ErbB-receptor family shows clear differences between individual receptors , but also a large overlap ( Figure 1 , Supplementary Table I ) .	result
EGFR is the family member with most interaction partners and the highest percentage of tyrosine residues with more than one binding partner .	fact
ErbB3 is characterized by a large number of binding sites for phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase ( PI3K ) ,	fact
while ErbB2 has only few interaction partners with Shc as the most frequent one	fact
ErbB4 and EGFR have a variety of phosphotyrosines that bind Grb2 , or Grb2 and Shc .	fact
EGFR and ErbB4 have a greater diversity of interaction partners than ErbB2 and ErbB3 .	fact
All interactions found in this study have been submitted to the public Molecular INTeraction database ( Zanzoni et al , 2002 ) .	result

To test whether the NH2-terminal PH domain of Tiam1 is sufficient for membrane localization	goal
, we fused a region containing this PH domain to the C580 Tiam1 protein ( see Materials and Methods ) .	method
The resulting protein , however , did not induce membrane ruffling and was not associated with the plasma membrane ( Michiels , F. , and J.C. Stam , unpublished results ) .	result
This might argue	implication
that additional sequences are required to ensure membrane localization	implication
Alternatively , the juxtaposition of the PH domain to the DH domain might interfere with the proper folding of these domains .	hypothesis
A construct expressing solely the region	none
containing the NH2-terminal PH domain	none
However , C1199-DeltaDH ,	none
which contains a deletion in the catalytic DH domain	none
The reason for this is not clear at the moment .	implication

The first methionine of PAG is not followed by any typical signal sequence ( Fig . 2 C ) .	result
However , a region of 20 mostly hydrophobic aa and devoid of charged aa extends from residues 17-36 and likely corresponds to an alpha-helical transmembrane domain ,	fact
indicating that PAG is a type III transmembrane protein with an extracellular portion of 16 aa .	fact
The transmembrane domain of PAG is directly followed	result
by a putative palmitoylation site ( CSSC ; see below	result
) .	result
Immediately downstream of the palmitoylation motif is a sequence of six aa enriched in basic residues ( two arginines and two lysines ) .	result
The predicted 397-aa cytoplasmic domain contains a total of 10 tyrosines ,	result
9 of which are within potential consensus sequences for phosphorylation by Src family PTK ( YxxV/L/I ) .	result
Among the tyrosine-based signaling motifs , three can be distinguished ( YxxL/V/I ( x ) nYxxL/V/I )	result
that show some similarity to ITAMs , although the values of n are larger ( 14 , 14 , and 26 residues , respectively ) than in typical ITAMs ( Fig . 2 C ) .	result
In addition to the tyrosine-based signaling motifs , the cytoplasmic domain contains multiple sites for phosphorylation by casein kinase 2 and/or protein kinase C ( 12 serine and 10 threonine residues ) .	result
Furthermore , two proline-rich sequences can be distinguished ( positions 131-138 and 257-263 )	result
that may potentially bind to SH3 domains 46 .	result
All these motifs , except for the tyrosine residue corresponding to Y341 , are also completely conserved in mouse PAG ( Fig . 2 C ) .	result
The overall acidic character of PAG ( predicted isoelectric point 4.4 ) and further modification by phosphorylation might result in anomalous binding of SDS and thus retarded migration on SDS-PAGE ,	hypothesis
leading to an apparent molecular mass of 70-85 kD .	hypothesis
The structure of PAG allows	implication
it to be designated as a novel transmembrane adaptor protein 4748 .	implication

Tsc1 mutant animals die at an early larval stage due to hyperactive TOR signaling	fact
, and this lethality can be rescued by heterozygous mutation of TOR or dS6K 39 , 40 .	fact
Similarly , we observed	result
that heterozygous disruption of dRagC partially suppressed the early larval lethality caused by Tsc1 mutation ( Fig	result
S4c , d ) .	result
This incomplete rescue suggests	implication
that dRagC may be somewhat responsive to Tsc1/Tsc2 signaling	implication
Rag	none

We tested	hypothesis
whether RagA Q66L can overcome inhibition by osmotic stress	hypothesis
As	result
shown in Fig	result
S2b , osmotic stress still inhibited RagA Q66L-induced S6K phosphorylation .	result
We found	result
that neither RagA Q66L nor RagA T21N affected AMPK phosphorylation ( data not shown )	result

Purification of Wnt5a Protein : Evidence that	none
It Is Cleaved from a Precursor	none

To determine whether p66shc can activate rac1,	goal
we compared rac1 activity in mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) cell lines derived from mice with targeted knockout of the p66shc gene (p66shc -/- MEF) with that of their wild-type littermates (p66shc +/+ MEF).	method
With transfection of sos1, eps8, and e3b1,	method
active GTP-rac1 was significantly higher in p66shc +/+ than in -/- MEF (Fig. 1 A).	result
Moreover, rac1 activity was rescued in p66shc -/- MEF that were reconstituted with full-length wild-type p66shc (p66shcWT) but not in cells expressing the CH2 domain of p66shc (p66shcCH2; Fig. 1 A).	result
A difference in active rac1 levels between p66shc -/- and +/+ cells was also apparent under basal conditions in which ectopic constructs were not	result
transfected (unpublished data).	result
data). These findings show that full-length p66shc activates rac1, whereas its NH2-terminal CH2 domain in isolation does not.	implication

Within MRN , only NBS1 contains phosphorylation-specific interaction domains :	fact
an N-terminal FHA domain followed directly by a BRCT2 domain ( Durocher et al , 2000 ; Manke et al , 2003 ; Yu et al , 2003 ; Becker et al , 2006 )	fact
using a wide range of expression constructs , we were unable to express soluble recombinant versions of the FHA or FHA/BRCT2 domains of NBS1 in bacteria	method
We also generated versions of this NBS1 region	method
in which either the FHA domain ( fNBS1R28A and fNBS1H45A ) or the BRCT2 region ( fNBS1K160M ) was mutated to abolish phospho-dependent interactions	method
These proteins were then tested for binding to an MDC1 fragment	method
encompassing the SDTD repeats ( GST-SDTD6 ) that had or had not been treated with CK2 ( Fig 3B )	method
Significantly , the wild-type NBS1 fragment bound specifically to CK2-phosphorylated -- but not unphosphorylated -- GST-SDTD6 ,	result
whereas this binding was abolished by mutation of the FHA or BRCT2 domain of NBS1 ( Fig 3B )	result
Furthermore , CK2-phosphorylated GST-SDTD2 retrieved	result
NBS1 and RAD50 from both MRC5- and NBS1-complemented Nijmegen breakage syndrome ( NBS ) cell extracts , but did not mediate such interactions when the FHA domain mutant of NBS1 was expressed in NBS cells ( Fig 3C ; see supplementary Fig S2 online for expression levels )	result
Taken together , these results indicate	implication
that the integrity of both the FHA and BRCT2 domains of NBS1 is needed for binding of NBS1 to the phosphorylated SDTD region of MDC1	implication

One explanation for why Wnt5a is unable to inhibit Wnt3a-mediated beta-catenin signaling when mFz4 is overexpressed is	result
that in 293Fz4 cells , increased mFz4 receptor binding sites may titrate available Wnt5a protein away from an alternative receptor carrying out its inhibitory function	implication
To investigate this hypothesis	goal
, we turned to the orphan receptor mRor2 , a single-pass transmembrane tyrosine kinase with proposed kinase-dependent and -independent activities [ 25 , 42 ] .	method
mRor2 is an appealing candidate receptor mediating Wnt5a 's inhibitory activity because Wnt5a and mRor2 have overlapping expression patterns	result
, their knockout phenotypes are similar , and mRor2 has been shown previously to act synergistically with Wnt5a to activate Jun kinase [ 22- 26 ] .	result
In addition , CAM-1 , the C. elegans Ror2 homolog , has been shown to inhibit canonical Wnt signaling-mediated cell migration ,	result
although the Wnt ligand mediating this inhibition remains to be determined [ 21 ]	problem

To analyze the specificity of the NH2-terminal PH domain of Tiam1	goal
, a region containing this PH domain was exchanged for the corresponding regions containing the PH domain of DbL , the PH domain of beta-ARK , or the COOHterminal PH domain of Tiam1 ( see Materials and Methods ) .	method
However , none of these mutant Tiam1 proteins localized at the plasma membrane and induced membrane ruffling ( data not shown ) .	result
This means either	implication
that additional sequences are required for correct functioning of these PH domains or that the primary function of the NH2terminal PH domain , namely to localize Tiam1 through specific interactions with components of the plasma membrane , can not be substituted for by other PH domains	implication

We have shown previously	implication
that terminating MAPK stimulation by rapid removal of serum growth factor induced the efflux of nuclear p42/p44 MAPK to the cytoplasm within 1 h ( 27 ) .	implication
In light of the experiments described in Fig . 4 , which demonstrate that protein neosynthesis is required for the nuclear accumulation of p42/p44 MAPK , we formulate the hypothesis	result
that the nuclear efflux induced by serum removal is caused by a decrease in the synthesis of proteins associated with p42/p44 MAPK in the nucleus ( nuclear anchors ) .	hypothesis
Therefore , we predict	hypothesis
that inhibition of protein synthesis should accelerate MAPK efflux from the nucleus .	hypothesis
Fig .	result

Sos-1 has been shown to be part of a signaling complex with Grb2,	fact
which mediates the activation of Ras upon RTK stimulation.	fact
Our finding that, under physiological conditions, Sos-1 also participates in a complex with Eps8 and E3b1	result
raises the question of the physical and functional relation	problem
ships between these two Sos-1-containing complexes.	problem
To gain insight into this issue,	goal
we initially mapped the region of E3b1 responsible for the interaction with Sos-1 by using a series of deletion mutants of E3b1 fused to glutathione S-transferase (GST).	method
Native Sos-1 could be efficiently recovered onto GST-E3b1 full length (Fig. 2 A, amino acids [aa] 2-480).	result
Further mapping revealed that	method
the SH3 domain of E3b1 (aa 416-480) was necessary and sufficient for binding (Fig. 2 A).	implication

We next examined the function of Rag GTPases in regulation of mammalian TORC1 in cultured cells .	method
Human RagA shares over 90 % sequence identity with RagB but only 25 % sequence identity with RagC and RagD	fact
while RagC shares 87 % sequence identity with RagD28	fact
Wild type as well as constitutively active and dominant negative mutants of human RagA	method
, B , C , and D were constructed .	method
In vivo labeling of RagA showed	result
that both wild type and RagA Q66L contained high levels of GTP while RagA T21N bound little nucleotide ( Supplementary Fig	result
S1 ) .	result
We found that expression of Rag , especially the constitutively active RagA Q66L and RagB Q99L , increased phosphorylation of co-transfected HA-S6K ( Fig . 2a ) .	result
In contrast , expression of dominant negative RagA T21N and RagB T54N decreased S6K phosphorylation .	result
The effect of dominant negative RagA and RagB expression on S6K was also evident	result
as shown by an increase in S6K mobility ( Fig . 2a )	result
On the other hand , expression of constitutively active and dominant negative RagC or RagD had only a minor effect on S6K phosphorylation ( Fig . 2a ) .	result
Surprisingly , the dominant negative mutants RagC S75N and RagD S76N decreased S6K mobility ( Fig . 2a ) ,	result
indicating a possible increase of phosphorylation ( see results later )	implication

To correlate our findings with in vivo phosphorylation of the receptor	goal
, we directly analyzed the kinetics of phosphorylation of several sites upon EGF stimulation by mass spectrometry .	method
Phosphopeptides of immunoprecipitated EGFR were analyzed by LC-MS/MS after different times of stimulation with EGF .	method
For these experiments , different cell populations were completely SILAC labeled with either Arg0 , Arg6 or Arg10 .	method
Arg0 populations were left unstimulated ,	method
Arg6 populations were stimulated for either 2 or 4 min	method
Ratios between tryptic phosphopeptides in their Arg0 , Arg6 and Arg10 forms in the combined immunoprecipitations allowed one	method
to monitor the abundance of these tryptic phosphopeptides as a function of time after EGF stimulation ( Blagoev et al , 2004 )	method
In this experiment , we identified a novel EGFR phosphorylation site by the tryptic peptide containing the phosphorylated tyrosine residue Y998 ( Figure 6A ) .	result
In total , tryptic peptides to six phosphorylation sites were analyzed ( Figure 6B ) .	method
Peptides of phosphorylated Y1110 , Y1172 and Y1197 showed highest ratios at 2-4 min of stimulation	result
, and these ratios decreased with longer EGF stimulation .	result
In contrast , Src-kinase phosphorylation site Y869 displayed a decrease in ratio at 4 min of stimulation ,	result
which was accompanied by an increase in ratio of the nonphosphorylated tryptic peptide	result
The novel phosphorylation site at Y998 displayed a gradual increase in ratio over 15 min of stimulation , and	result
the phosphorylation site at Y801 was maximally activated as late as 8 min after start of EGF stimulation ( Figure 6B )	result
However , in interpreting the kinetics of such curves , it has	fact
to be kept in mind that the amount of EGFR immunoprecipitated by the phosphotyrosine antibody will depend on the total tyrosine phosphorylation of the receptor in addition to the phosphorylation of the site under investigation	fact

An open reading frame of 1,296 nucleotides ( not shown ) codes for a polypeptide of 432 aa and a predicted molecular weight of 46,980	result
; finally , four peptides sequenced by Nano ES MS/MS were matched to the full-length sequence of the protein ( Fig . 2 C ) .	result
Because of the fact	implication
that the phosphoprotein was purified from GEMs	implication
, we termed it phosphoprotein associated with GEMs .	implication
In Jurkat T cells transiently transfected with an expression vector encoding PAG , a 68-kD polypeptide ( see below ) was detected by an anti-PAG mAb	result
that exactly comigrated with the endogenously expressed protein ( Fig . 2 D ) .	result
This indicates	implication
that the sequenced cDNA contains the complete PAG gene .	implication

Attempting to understand the differences observed in the size and number of focal adhesions between the two cell lines which differ only by the presence or absence of PTP-PEST	goal
, we analyzed the tyrosine phosphorylation state of specific focal adhesion proteins ( Fig . 4 a ) .	method
The adapter protein p130CAS was previously shown to be hyperphosphorylated ( Cote et al. , 1998 ) ,	result
since it is a physiological substrate for PTP-PEST ( Garton et al. , 1996 )	implication
The other proteins immunoprecipitated and analyzed for their phosphotyrosine status with an antiphosphotyrosine antibody included paxillin and cortactin .	method
Paxillin was shown	result
to be hyperphosphorylated in FAK null cell lines , a mutation that was also associated with a decrease in cell mobility and increase in numbers of focal adhesions ( Ilic et al. , 1995 )	result
Paxillin phosphorylation was also shown recently	result
to be required for cell spreading and focal adhesion formation ( Richardson et al. , 1997 )	result
In the present study , paxillin was found in a hyperphosphorylated state ( Fig . 4 a ) .	result
Interestingly , paxillin was shown to physically associate with PTP-PEST ( Shen et al. , 1998 ) , but	result
experiments using trapping mutants suggest that paxillin is not a direct substrate for PTP-PEST ( Cote , J.-F. , C.E	result
Turner , and M.L .	result
Tremblay , manuscript submitted for publication ) .	result
Cortactin , like p130CAS , is a pp60Src substrate ( Wu et al. , 1991 ) ,	fact
although it is not associated with focal adhesions	fact
It interacts with the actin cytoskeleton ( Wu and Parsons , 1993 ) and is tyrosine phosphorylated following integrin-mediated cell adhesion to extracellular matrix ( Vuori and Ruoslahti , 1995 ) .	fact
However , Fig . 4 a shows that cortactin is not constitutively tyrosine	result
hyperphosphorylated in the PTP-PEST ( -/- ) cells , suggesting that it is not a direct or indirect substrate for this phosphatase	implication

Interaction of phosphotyrosine peptides with Grb2 , Shc or PI3K were dependent on specific consensus sequences	result
that have been well documented	result
which contains a PTB-domain and an SH2-domain	fact
The majority of Shc-binding sites conformed to the typical N-P-X-pY recognition motif for the PTB domains ( Gustafson et al , 1995 ) .	result
However , an alignment of the sequences around five Shc-binding sites revealed no conserved N-terminal motif .	result
a consensus sequence pY- [ KR ] -X- [ LI ] involving a basic residue neighboring the phosphotyrosine and a hydrophobic residue at position +3 ( Figure 2 )	result
Since PTB domains have recognition sequences N-terminal to pY and SH2 domains have C-terminal binding motifs ( Yaffe , 2002 )	fact
, Shc is likely to bind these bait peptides through its SH2 domain .	hypothesis
A consensus binding motif for the Shc SH2-domain of pY-phi-X- [ LI ] , with strongest selection on the position +3 has been described in pool-sequencing experiments ( Songyang et al , 1994 ) .	result
that the strong selection of position +3 alone comprising the motif pY-X-X- [ LI ] is not sufficient to specify binding of endogenous Shc , as Shc did not bind to pY915 , pY978 of EGFR , pY8O3 , pY923 of ErbB2 , pY912 , pY975 , pY1307 of EbB3 or pY921 , pY984 of ErbB4 , which have a pY-X-X- [ LI ] sequence	implication
Supporting evidence for our motif also comes from experiments	implication
that demonstrated binding of recombinant SH2 domain of Shc to phosphopeptides containing the pY- [ KR ] -X- [ LI ] sequence around pY727 and pY998 of EGFR	implication

To further show that the interaction between beta-Pix and Rac1 is independent of the bound nucleotide,	goal
we performed pull-down assays with GST or with GST-Rac1 bound to GDP or GTP.	method
We used COS-7 cell lysates expressing an exchange-deficient beta-Pix mutant (Manser et al., 1998)	method
to exclude a potential effect of beta-Pix activity on the nucleotide-bound state of	goal
Rac1.	goal
Fig. 2 E shows that this beta-Pix mutant binds both the GDP- and the GTP-bound forms of Rac1 to a similar extent,	result
which shows that the Rac1-beta-Pix interaction is independent of the Dbl homology (DH) domain of beta-Pix and occurs with both inactive and activated Rac1	implication

Northern blot analysis was performed	method
to investigate the pattern of PAG mRNA expression in human tissues .	goal
Fig . 5 A demonstrates that mRNA coding for PAG is expressed in almost all tissues examined ,	result
the highest level being observed in the immune system as well as in the lung , heart , and placenta .	result
Interestingly , several bands hybridized with the PAG cDNA probe .	result
This might indicate the existence of alternatively spliced forms of PAG or PAG-related genes .	hypothesis
However , we did not yet obtain convincing evidence for the existence of PAG variants on the protein level ( not shown ) .	result

In previous studies, we showed that Sos-1, E3b1, and Eps8 could form a trimeric complex in vivo upon concomitant overexpression of the three proteins.	goal
However, we failed to detect the existence of an endogenous S/E/E8 complex (Scita et al., 1999).	problem
We reasoned that this could be due to the low efficiency of the immunoprecipitating antibodies used.	implication
We thus sought to exploit the availability of eps8-/- fibroblasts to circumvent this problem.	implication
To this end, we performed immunoprecipitation experiments using eps8-/- fibroblasts in which the expression of Eps8 was restored, to physiological levels, with an expression vector encoding a myc epitope-tagged Eps8 (-/- [Eps8myc] cells	method
We selected transfected clones in which the levels of expression of Eps8myc were very similar to those present in wild-type fibroblasts (Fig. 1 A).	method
Endogenous Sos-1 and E3b1 could be detected in anti-myc immunoprecipitates from lysates of Eps8myc-reconstituted, but not from eps8-/- fibroblasts (Fig. 1 B).	result

The presence of multiple tyrosine-based motifs suggested	fact
that PAG may associate with SH2 domain-containing cytoplasmic signaling proteins .	hypothesis
Indeed , in vitro pull-down assays performed on lysates of pervanadate-treated Jurkat T cells revealed	method
that phosphorylated PAG strongly binds to the recombinant SH2 domains of Lck , Fyn , Lyn , Csk , Shc , Vav , GAP , and PI3K as well as the tandem SH2 domains of ZAP70 and Syk , whereas it only weakly binds to the SH2 domains of growth factor receptor binding protein 2 ( Grb2 ) , SLP-76 , SH2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase ( SHP ) -1 , and SHP-2 ( Fig . 7 A ) .	result

, we examined the subcellular distribution of Apg5 in wild-type ES cells .	method
The Apg12-Apg5 conjugates were recovered primarily in the cytosolic fraction , with a very small portion found in the membrane	result
fraction ( see Fig .	result
S1 in the Online Supplement ) .	result
The total amount and subcellular distribution of the Apg12-Apg5 conjugates did not change significantly after amino acid starvation .	result

To investigate which of the conserved domains in Tiam1 determines the intracellular localization	goal
, small deletions were made in each of these domains within the C1199 construct ( see Fig . 3 and Materials and Methods ) .	method
These mutant proteins were transiently expressed in COS-7 cells	method
to analyze their intracellular localization and ability to induce membrane ruffling	goal
Transfection of these mutant Tiam1 constructs in NIH3T3 cells resulted in the same phenotypic changes ( not shown ) .	result
Although Tiam1 is endogenously expressed in COS-7 cells and NIH3T3 cells	result
, the levels are too low to be visualized by immunocytochemistry or Western blotting .	result
If phenotypic changes were induced by the transfection of Tiam1 mutants	result
, they were found in > 80 % of the transfected cells .	result

The regulatory influence of SHIP on F. novicida-induced IL-12 , IL-6 , and RANTES was also observed at different multiplicities of infection ( MOIs ; Figure 2A-2C ) ,	result
suggesting that the negative regulatory effect of SHIP is independent of bacterial numbers infecting the macrophages .	implication
In addition , the viability of the bacteria is not essential for the negative influence of SHIP	implication
as macrophages infected with heat-killed bacteria displayed similar cytokine responses as those infected with live bacteria ( Figure 2D-2F ) .	result
Likewise , SHIP also down-regulated	result
F. tularensis LVS-induced IL-12 , IL-6 , and RANTES production ( Figure 2D-2F ) .	result

To understand the molecular mechanism mediating the resistance of Peli1-/- mice to septic shock induction	goal
, we bled the LPS- and poly ( I : C ) -challenged mice during early time periods ( 1-4 hours ) after LPS and poly ( I : C ) injection and measured the serum concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines as well as the anti-viral cytokine interferon ( IFN ) -beta .	method
Injection of Peli1+/+ mice led to the production of high concentrations of TNF , IL-6 , IL-12P40 , and IFN-beta ( Fig . 1c ) .	result
Consistent with the lethality result , the induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines was severely attenuated in the Peli1-/- mice ( Fig . 1c ) .	result
Loss of Peli1 also partially inhibited the proinflammatory cytokine induction by poly ( I : C ) ( Fig . 1d ) .	result
On the other hand , Peli1 deficiency only slightly reduced the production of IFN-beta ( Fig . 1c , d ) .	result
These results suggest a critical role for Peli1 in	implication
regulating TLR3 and TLR4-mediated proinflammatory cytokine induction and lethality	implication

In the later part of the study , we employed	method
a linear ion trap Fourier transform mass spectrometer ( LTQ-FT , ThermoFinnigan )	method
This instrument has significantly higher	fact
sequencing speed and peptide mass accuracy , which resulted in significantly higher quality data	fact

We next tested	goal
whether increased mRor2 expression was necessary to shift the balance of Wnt5a-mediated activation versus inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in cells overexpressing mFz4	hypothesis
293 and 293Fz4 cells were transiently transfected with the STF reporter and mRor2 and then treated with the indicated Wnt proteins .	method
that Wnt5a-induced reporter activation in the presence of mFz4 and LRP5 is abrogated when mRor2 is expressed	result
while Wnt5a protein is unable to inhibit Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in the presence of mFz4 , as compared to parental 293 cells	result
Once again , inhibition of Wnt3a-mediated reporter activation was observed only in the presence of Wnt5a ;	result
mRor2 expression alone did not reduce Wnt3a-mediated reporter activation , indicating that the inhibitory activity is dependent on the presence of Wnt5a	implication

To determine whether membrane localization is the only function of the NH2-terminal PH domain , we fused the NH2terminal 20 amino acids of c-Src ,	goal
containing the myristoylation site and a basic region , in front of a C580 Tiam1 protein , resulting in MS-C580 Tiam1 ( see Materials and Methods )	method
C580 Tiam1 encompasses the COOH-terminal 580 amino acids and encodes the DH domain and adjacent PH domain ( Fig . 6 A ) .	result
Similar to the C682 Tiam1 protein ( see Fig . 2 B )	result
, the C580 Tiam1 protein did not induce membrane ruffling and was not localized at the plasma membrane ( Figs .	result
6 A and 7 A ) .	result
In contrast , the MS-C580 Tiam1 protein induced	result
ruffling in both NIH3T3 cells and COS-7 cells ( Fig . 6 B ) , albeit less extensively than C1199 Tiam1 ( Fig . 3 A )	result
No differences were observed in the expression levels of these proteins ( Fig . 4 , lanes 10-12 ) .	result
Immuno-EM showed	result
that MS-C580 Tiam1 was able to associate with the plasma membrane ( Fig . 7 B ) , although this protein seemed to be more interiorly located than the mutant C1199 Tiam1 proteins ( compare Figs	result
5 and 7 B ) .	result
Furthermore , part of the expressed MS-C580 Tiam1 protein was present around vesicle-like structures in the cytoplasm , similar to other MS-containing Tiam1 fusion proteins (	result
see for example Fig . 6 E , inset	result
A fusion protein containing the NH2-terminal Src domain in front of the C1199-DeltaPHn Tiam1 protein was also able	result
to localize at the plasma membrane and to cause ruffling ( data not shown )	result
The Src membrane localization domain thus enables C580 Tiam1 and C1199-DeltaPHn	implication
to induce membrane ruffling by tethering these proteins to the plasma membrane	implication

Although the disparity in active rac1 between the p66shc +/+ and -/- cells was evident under basal conditions,	result
this	result
difference was much more pronounced with the overexpression of sos1, eps8, and e3b1.	result
This might reflect very low levels of endogenous expression of these proteins (particularly eps8 and e3b1) observed in these cell lines (unpublished data),	hypothesis
consistent with a predicted mechanism for limiting the formation of the sos1-e3b1-eps8 complex, and regulation of rac1 activity (Innocenti et al., 2002).	hypothesis
Notably, although endogenous expression of e3b1 and eps8 was low in both cell lines,	result
p66shc -/- cells had appreciably higher levels of both e3b1 and eps8 when compared with their p66shc +/+ counterparts (unpublished data).	result
This inverse relationship between active rac1 and e3b1/eps8 hints at the possibility of a compensatory feedback mechanism between rac1 and the endogenous proteins that regulate its activity.	implication

To determine whether Wnt5a mediates its inhibitory effects through the mRor2 receptor , 293 cells stably expressing the full-length mRor2 receptor ( 293mRor2 ) were treated with Wnt proteins over the course of 24 h.	method
As shown in Figure 5A , Wnt3a protein treatment robustly activates the STF reporter in the presence of mRor2	result
However , at every time point measured , Wnt5a protein-mediated inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling is synergistically enhanced by mRor2 overexpression as compared to the parental cell line (	result

The signaling studies presented above suggest a role for Peli1 in	implication
regulating IKK activation in the TRIF-dependent TLR pathway	implication
A hallmark of this pathway of IKK activation is the ubiquitination of a TRIF-interacting adaptor kinase , RIP1 18 .	fact
In response to poly ( I : C ) stimulation , RIP1 undergoes K63 ubiquitination ,	fact
which is critical for recruitment and activation of IKK	fact
To date , the ubiquitin ligase of RIP1 in the TRIF-dependent TLR pathway remains unidentified .	fact
Since Peli1 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase 15-17 that is critical for IKK activation by TLR3	hypothesis
, we examined the potential role of Peli1 in ubiquitinating RIP1 .	method
We first analyzed	goal
whether Peli1 is essential for poly ( I : C ) -stimulated ubiquitination of RIP1	goal
Consistent with previous studies 18 , 21 , stimulation of Peli1+/+ MEFs with poly ( I : C ) led to accumulation of ubiquitinated RIP1 ( Fig . 6a ) .	result
In contrast , the poly ( I : C ) -stimulated	result
RIP1 ubiquitination was largely blocked in the Peli1-/- cells ( Fig . 6a and Supplementary Fig . 6 )	result

To establish the functional relevance of the Rac1-beta-Pix interaction,	goal
we generated HEK293 and MDCKII cells that express beta-Pix at levels approximately twofold more than endogenous and incubated these cells briefly with the cell-permeable version of the Rac1 COOH-terminal peptide	method
that blocks the Rac1-beta-Pix interaction.	fact
Rac1 activity was subsequently determined using the Pak-Crib pull-down assay (Price et al., 2003).	method
We found that the exogenous expression of beta-Pix resulted in higher levels of active Rac1 in these cells, which was reduced in cells that were incubated with the Rac1 COOH-terminal peptide (Fig. 3 A).	result
Importantly, the Rac1 COOH-terminal peptide does not interfere with the isolation of activated Rac1 by the Pak1-Crib peptide (van Hennik et al., 2003).	fact
Furthermore, GFP-beta-Pix-induced membrane ruffling in HEK293 cells was almost completely inhibited by the Rac1 COOH-terminal peptide but not by the control peptide or by a Rac1 P-A COOH-terminal peptide (Fig. 3 B),	result
which cannot bind beta-Pix (not depicted).	fact
Moreover, expression of the beta-PixW43K mutant inhibited Rac1 activation compared with the expression of WT beta-	result
a-Pix, again indica	implication
ting that the SH3 domain of beta-Pix is indispensable for beta-Pi	implication
In addition, when beta-Pix-expressing cells were kept in suspension,	method
Rac1 was not activated,	result
suggesting that adhesion to an extracellular matrix is required for beta-Pix-mediated Rac1 activation (unpublished data).	implication
To further test this,	goal
we reduced the levels of beta-Pix in mouse embryonal fibroblasts (MEFs) using short inhibitory RNA (siRNA) expression and seeded the cells on fibronectin for 15 min, after which the Rac1 activity was assayed.	method
Indeed, the cells with reduced beta-Pix expression also showed reduced Rac1 activity after adhesion (Fig. 3 D),	result
confirming that beta-Pix mediates adhesion-induced Rac1 activation.	implication

To further eliminate the possibility of nonspecific effect ( s ) of LLnL	goal
, treatment with lactacystin ( Fig . 8 C ) mimics the action of LLnL ( Fig . 8 B ) .	result
LLnL is a reversible and slow-binding inhibitor that blocks proteasome function and calpain proteases ( 46 ) ,	fact
whereas lactacystin , a compound shown to be a more specific proteasome inhibitor , alkylates irreversibly threonine 1 of the active beta subunit of the proteasome ( 11 , 13 ) .	fact

Previous reports and the data shown above indicated that in vitro-labeled pp80 migrates at 80-85 kD in SDS-PAGE .	result
However , the data depicted in Fig .	implication
2 D suggested that in nonstimulated Jurkat T cells , PAG only runs at about 68-70 kD .	implication
The apparent discrepancy between the molecular weight of the in vitro-phosphorylated PAG ( Fig . 3 ) versus its migration when prepared from lysates of nonstimulated cells suggested	result
that the electrophoretic mobility of PAG is influenced by its level of tyrosine phosphorylation .	implication
Indeed , the electrophoretic mobility of PAG strongly decreased after pervanadate treatment of Jurkat cells and corresponded to the previously observed apparent molecular mass of 85 kD ( Fig . 4 A ) .	result
This demonstrates	implication
that in unstimulated Jurkat T cells , a submaximally phosphorylated 68-kD form of PAG predominates that shifts to 80-85 kD upon pervanadate treatment .	implication

IQGAP1 is a scaffold protein and participates in signaling cascades mediated by a diverse group of cell surface receptors [33], including VEGFR-2 [26].	fact
In addition, we recently have identified IQGAP1 as a binding partner of VEGFR-2 by a proteomic approach (our unpublished data),	result
raising the likelihood for the involvement of Y1057 in the recruitment and tyrosine phosphorylation of IQGAP1 by VEGFR-2.	implication
Our initial observation showed that IQGAP1 is tyrosine phosphorylated in PAE cells by VEGFR-2 and mutation of Y1057 reduces the ability of VEGFR-2 to stimulate its tyrosine phosphorylation (Figure 5A).	result
IQGAP1 also is tyrosine phosphorylated by other RTKs including, ErbB1/EGFR-1 and PDGFRbeta ectopically expressed in PAE cells (our unpublished data),	result
suggesting that IQGAP1 serves as a common substrate for RTKs.	implication
In addition, our data show that over-expression of c-Src in PAE cells highly enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of IQGAP1.	result
In a sharp contrast, over-expression of a dominant negatively acting c-Src inhibited tyrosine phosphorylation of IQGAP1 (Figure 5C).	result

It is now apparent	result
that CaMKKbeta can act as an alternate upstream kinase to LKB1 that activates AMPK in a Ca2+-dependent and AMP-independent manner [ 11-13 ] .	result
A recent report indicates	result
that CaMKK mediates thrombin-stimulated AMPK activation in HUVECs , but that AMPK does not underlie thrombin-stimulated eNOS Ser1177 phosphorylation [ 21 ] .	result
As VEGF is known to stimulate PLCgamma-mediated increases in intracellular Ca2+ [ 3,22 ] and VEGF-stimulated AMPK activity is inhibited by the PLC inhibitor U73122 ( Fig . 2A )	fact
, we examined whether VEGF-stimulated AMPK activity was mediated by CaMKK activation by using the CaMKK inhibitor , STO-609 .	method
Preincubation of HAECs with STO-609 reduced VEGF-stimulated AMPK activity to basal levels ( Fig . 2A ) , without	result
altering AICAR-stimulated AMPK activity , which is mediated by LKB1 ( data not shown ) .	result
VEGF-stimulated AMPK Thr172 phosphorylation was similarly reduced to basal levels after preincubation with STO-609 ( Fig . 2B ) .	result
STO-609 inhibits both CaMKKalpha and CaMKKbeta , yet	fact
the expression of these isoforms in endothelial cells has not previously been determined .	hypothesis
Using isoform-specific anti-CaMKK antibodies	none
, we demonstrated expression of both CaMKKalpha and CaMKKbeta in HAECs ( Fig . 2C ) .	method
These data indicate	implication
that VEGF stimulates CaMKK via PLC-mediated Ca2+ mobilisation , and that CaMKK , rather than LKB1 is the upstream kinase responsible for AMPK activation in response to VEGF in endothelial cells .	implication

We next assayed	hypothesis
whether mRor2 was carrying out its inhibitory function through direct binding to Wnt5a	hypothesis
Two variants of the extracellular cysteine-rich Wnt binding domain ( CRD ) of mRor2 were cloned in frame amino-terminal to an immunoglobulin heavy chain domain ( IgG )	method
as previously described and expressed in 293 cells [ 43 ]	method
One variant is comprised of the Ror2 CRD alone cloned downstream of an exogenous signal sequence ( Ror2 CRD-IgG ) ;	method
the other variant utilizes the endogenous Ror2 signal sequence and possesses the full amino terminus of the Ror2 protein ending at the carboxyl terminus of the CRD ( Ror2 NT CRD-IgG )	method
The secreted mRor2 CRD-IgG fusion proteins were then purified from conditioned media , bound	method
to protein A beads	method
The Smoothened receptor is a Fz family member that possesses a CRD domain but ,	fact
rather than playing a role in Wnt signaling , it functions exclusively Hedgehog signal transmission	fact
As a negative control , purified Smoothened ( Smo ) CRD-IgG protein was also bound to beads and assayed for Wnt binding .	method
Figure 5B shows	result
that Wnt5a protein specifically binds to the purified Ror2 and Fz4 CRD domains , whereas only background binding to the Smoothened CRD occurs	result
Wnt3a protein shows specific binding only to the Fz4 CRD-IgG protein ( unpublished data ) .	result

We then examined	hypothesis
whether the increased production of cytokine mediators by SHIP-/- macrophages is due to enhanced uptake of F. novicida .	hypothesis
The uptake of bacteria was determined by CFU assays	method
, and the results are shown in Figure 2G .	result
The uptake of F. novicida by SHIP+/+ and SHIP-/- BMM was equivalent .	result
These findings are also supported by transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) analysis (	method
SHIP+/+ and SHIP-/- macrophages ingested 2.95 and 3.2 bacteria/cell , respectively	method
) .	method

We have shown previously	implication
that full-length Tiam1 ( FL1591 ) or a large COOH-terminal fragment of the Tiam1 protein ( C1199 ) causes Rac1-dependent induction of membrane ruffling in NIH3T3 fibroblast cells ( Michiels et al. , 1995 )	implication
Established NIH3T3 cell lines expressing either of these proteins are flat and epithelial-like and contain many membrane ruffles ( Fig . 1 B ) , a phenotype	result
that is also induced by transfection or microinjection of constitutively activated ( V12 ) Rac1	result
In contrast , a smaller COOH-terminal part of the Tiam1 protein ( C682 ) ,	result
which contains only the DH domain and the adjacent PH domain	fact
As shown by confocal laser scanning immunofluorescence microscopy	method
, the truncated large C1199 Tiam1 protein was present in the cytoplasm and colocalized with F-actin in membrane ruffles ( Fig . 1 B ) .	result
In contrast , the short C682 Tiam1 protein seemed	result
to be restricted to the cytoplasm ( Fig . 1 C )	result
Western blot analyses ( see Fig . 4 , lanes 1-3 ) indicated	result
that both proteins were intact	result
This suggested	implication
that the difference in phenotypes induced by these truncated proteins is probably caused by a different intracellular localization , and not by differences in stability	implication
Immunoelectron microscopy ( immuno-EM ) indeed confirmed	result
that the C1199 Tiam1 protein is present in the cytoplasm as well as at the cell membrane and particularly in the membrane ruffles , whereas the C682 Tiam1 protein is almost exclusively located in the cytoplasm ( Fig . 2 )	result
We hypothesized , therefore ,	hypothesis
that membrane localization of Tiam1 is required for morphological transformation of NIH3T3 cells	hypothesis

To investigate whether AMPK mediates VEGF-stimulated NO synthesis	goal
, we first determined the effects of physiological concentrations of VEGF on AMPK activity and eNOS Ser1177 phosphorylation in HAECs .	method
VEGF ( 10 ng/ml ) elicited a transient , concomitant activation of AMPK and eNOS phosphorylation at Ser1177 ,	result
which reached a maximum 2.8- and 3.6-fold stimulation , respectively , after 5 min .	result
Both AMPK activity and eNOS phosphorylation rapidly returned to basal levels ( Fig . 1A ) .	result
In addition , activation of AMPK and phosphorylation of eNOS at Ser1177 by VEGF shared	result
a similar dose-dependence , such that AMPK activity and eNOS Ser1177 phosphorylation were stimulated maximally ( 2.5- and 3.6-fold , respectively ) by 10 ng/ml VEGF , a concentration at which all further experiments were performed ( Fig . 1B ) .	result
Previous studies have reported	result
that stimulation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) with VEGF for 6 h or bovine aortic endothelial cells ( BAECs ) with VEGF for 10 min was without effect on phosphorylation of AMPK at Thr172 [ 15,19 ] .	result
These studies are in agreement with the present study	result
in which VEGF-stimulated AMPK activity peaked after 5 min incubation and returned to basal values within 15 min .	result

Amino acids are known	fact
to stimulate TORC1 but not TORC22	fact
In fact , amino acid starvation indirectly elevates TORC2 activity	implication
because inactivation of S6K by amino acid starvation relieves the feedback inhibition on TORC231 , 32 ( Fig . 1b )	result
We tested the effect of	method
dRag on dAkt phosphorylation , a TORC2 substrate	method
Knockdown of dRagA or dRagC caused a significant increase of dAkt phosphorylation ( Fig . 1b ) .	result
These data are consistent with the notion	implication
that dRagA and dRagC play a positive role in TORC1 activation but not TORC2 activation	implication

To determine the functional relationship between dRag and the components of TOR signaling pathway	goal
, we performed knockdown of dTSC2 and dPTEN , two negative regulators of dTOR , in combination with dRag .	method
As expected	method
, dTSC2 knockdown increased dS6K phosphorylation ( Fig . 1c ) .	result
Knockdown of either dRagA or dRagC compromised the effect of TSC2 knockdown on dS6K phosphorylation ( Fig . 1c ) .	result
Of note is that	result
knockdown of dRagA or dRagC did not decrease dS6K phosphorylation below the basal level when dTSC2 was also knocked down	result
In contrast , dRheb knockdown eliminated dS6K phosphorylation	result
even when dTSC2 was knocked down	result
Similar results between dRag and dPTEN were observed ( Fig . 1c ) .	result
These data suggest	implication
that RagA and RagC may function in parallel to PTEN and TSC2 to activate TORC1	implication
Rag	none

The systematic profiling of interaction partners not only allows a global view of interaction sites , but also reveals important detailed information	implication
that can be exploited further for the understanding of signaling processes , as will be illustrated with the example of STAT5 binding to EGFR	implication
STAT5 is a transcription factor	fact
that is rapidly activated upon EGF stimulation	fact
It then moves to the nucleus ,	fact
where it is involved in the regulation of gene transcription	fact
Experiments with truncated EGFR clones suggested	hypothesis
that the region between tyrosine residue Y0978 and Y0998 was necessary for activation of STAT5 ( Xia et al , 2002 )	hypothesis
However , it remained unclear	problem
whether this proposed interaction was direct or through a multiprotein complex	problem
Systematic interaction profiling of all tyrosine residues of the ErbB-receptor family revealed	method
STAT5 as a specific interaction partner to the phosphorylated bait peptides Y978 and Y998 of the EGF receptor and Y984 of ErbB4	result
We confirmed the direct interaction of STAT5 and EGFR by immunoprecipitation .	method
When EGFR was immunoprecipitated from whole-cell lysates of cells under normal growth conditions ( basal stimulation in 10 % FBS )	method
, STAT5 was identified by Western blot and vice versa ( Figure 5 ) .	method
To further confirm this finding , we added synthetic phosphorylated peptides pY978 and pY998 to the immunoprecipitation reaction ,	method
which resulted in reduced STAT5 detection after EGFR immunoprecipitation	result
The unphosphorylated counterparts of these peptides had no influence on the immunoprecipitation reactions ( Figure 5A ) .	result
that the interaction of STAT5 depended on EGFR phosphorylation , which peaked after two minutes of EGF stimulation , and that normal growing HeLa cells also have a basal level of phosphorylated EGFR	result

Subsequent pull-down experiments with WT GST-Rac1 in the presence of purified beta-Pix or of a beta-Pix SH3 domain mutant, beta-PixW43K (Bagrodia et al., 1998),	method
showed that beta-Pix can only bind Rac1 when the SH3 domain of beta-Pix is intact (Fig. 2 C).	implication
Moreover, we observed that the isolated beta-Pix SH3 domain is sufficient for binding to purified Rac1 (Fig. 2 D).	result
D). Together, these findings indicate that the direct interaction of Rac1 with beta-Pix is mediated via the proline stretch in the COOH terminus of Rac1 and the SH3 domain of beta-P	implication
Moreover, the Rac1 sequence is specific for the beta-Pix SH3 dom	implication
because the Rac2 or Cdc42 COOH-terminal peptides, which harbor potential SH3 domain-binding motifs, do not bind beta-Pix (Fig. 1	result

Second ,	method
to test whether PI3K influences F. novicida-induced activation of NFkappaB , transfected cells were treated with LY294002 , or an inhibitor of NFkappaB SN50	none
, and expression of luciferase enzyme in response to F. novicida infection was measured .	method
The results are shown in Figure 6B .	result
Inhibition of PI3K with LY294002 significantly decreased expression of the NFkappaB-driven reporter gene in response to F. novicida infection ( p < 0.0001 ) ,	result
suggesting that the activation of PI3K pathway is necessary for induction of NFkappaB activation .	implication

We further examined the localization of Apg5 by confocal microscopy .	method
Bulk protein degradation ( Fig . 3 B ) and autolysosome formation ( see Fig . 6 ) were restored in the GFP24 clone ,	result
indicating that GFP-fused Apg5 ( GFP-Apg5 ) was functional and that the physiological localization of Apg5 can be indicated by observing the GFP signal .	implication
Under nutrient-rich conditions , most GFP-Apg5 was found	method
to distribute evenly throughout the cytoplasm , with few punctate spots ( Fig . 4 , 0 min ) .	result
30 min after the medium was replaced with amino acid-free medium , the number of the punctate structures increased ,	result
which continued at 60 and 120 min .	result
These GFP-Apg5 punctate spots were overlapped with anti-Apg12 antibody staining ,	result
indicating that GFP-Apg5 on these structures were conjugated with Apg12 ( Fig . 5 A ) .	implication
3-MA and wortmannin , an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases ,	fact
which were known to inhibit autophagy	fact
, suppressed GFP-Apg5 spot induction during amino acid deprivation ( Fig . 4 ) .	result
APG5+/+ cells stably expressing GFP alone displayed only cytoplasmic staining ( data not shown ) .	result

A more quantitative assay for migration is the chamber mobility assay ,	method
where the ability of cells to translocate to the fibronectin-coated side of a perforated membrane is measured ( see Materials and Methods )	method
Once again , we compared the migration of PTP-PEST ( +/- ) and PTP-PEST ( -/- ) cells .	method
As in the wound-healing assay , a significant decrease in motility was observed in the knockout cells ( Fig . 2 e ) .	result
To ensure that this effect is indeed due to the absence of PTP-PEST	goal
, PTP-PEST ( -/- ) cells were transfected with PTP-PEST and a stably overexpressing clone was obtained .	method
When tested in the same assay , these cells showed an increase in migration	result
that was significant but still not comparable with wild-type levels	result
One possibility is	implication
that overexpression of PTP-PEST could also have deleterious effects on cell migration , as is the case with PTP1B ( Liu et al. , 1998 )	implication
To test this hypothesis , we are currently trying	goal
to obtain clones expressing more physiological levels of PTP-PEST , as well as different constructs and catalytically inactive mutants of the phosphatase , and verify the effects on this phenotype and the others described below	method

We next utilized	method
a Ror2 deletion construct that lacks the extracellular cysteine-rich Wnt-binding domain ( mRor2DeltaCRD ) to determine whether the CRD domain was necessary for Wnt5a signal transmission	method
When transiently transfected into 293 cells in conjunction with the STF reporter	method
, mRor2DeltaCRD does not enhance Wnt5a-mediated inhibition of the STF reporter ( Figure 5C ) .	result
Thus , the CRD domain binds directly to Wnt5a and is required for Ror2	result
to transduce Wnt5a 's inhibitory activity	result

Autophagy is strongly induced in the Drosophila fat body in response to starvation	fact
, and this is dependent upon downregulation of TOR signaling .	fact
Autophagy can be readily imaged in vivo	result
using markers such as GFP-Atg8 and Lysotracker 41	result
We found	result
that overexpression of dRagA Q61L strongly inhibited starvation-induced punctate Lysotracker and GFP-Atg8a staining ( Fig . 7a-d ) in response to starvation in Drosophila	result
This observation indicates	implication
that active dRagA suppresses the nutrient starvation response , suggesting that high dRagA activity may generate false signals mimicking nutrient sufficiency , thereby suppressing autophagy	implication

Cell adhesion induces the activation of integrins and recruitment of paxillin (Brown and Turner, 2004),	result
which can associate with the GIT-beta-Pix-Pak complex (Turner et al., 1999),	fact
possibly driving localized Rac1 activation by beta-Pix (Zhao et al., 2000a,b).	hypothesis
Our observation that beta-Pix binds specifically to Rac1 via its COOH terminus (Fig. 1)	result
suggests that beta-Pix mediates the targeting of Rac1 to the membrane.	hypothesis
To test this,	goal
we used a non	method
prenylated Rac1 mutant (V12Rac1C189S; del Pozo et al., 2000	method
that no longer localizes to the plasma membrane but accumulates in the nucleus (Fig. 4 A).	fact
However, when this Rac1 mutant is cotransfected with beta-Pix, membrane localization of Rac1 is restored (Fig. 4 A).	result
Furthermore, the membrane recruitment of V12Rac1C189S by beta-Pix is blocked by the cell-permeable Rac1 COOH-terminal peptide (Fig. 4 A).	result
This shows that the Rac1 COOH terminus by itself is not sufficient for the targeting of full-length nonprenylated Rac1 to the plasma membrane but that the interaction with beta-Pix is both necessary and sufficient	implication
for the membrane targeting of Rac1, even in the absence of a lipid anchor.	implication

The cytoskeleton of the cell plays an important role in cell motility .	fact
We investigated	hypothesis
whether this observed migration impairment of homozygous PTP-PEST mutant cells could be caused by an abnormal organization of the actin filaments , or by a visible difference in focal adhesions	hypothesis
Cells from each cell line were plated on fibronectin .	method
The actin filaments were stained with a rhodamine-conjugated phalloidin ( Fig . 3 , a , c , e , and g ) , and	method
the focal adhesions were highlighted by indirect immunofluorescence using mouse mAb against vinculin ( Fig . 3 , b , d , f , and h )	method
25 min after plating , both cell lines showed membrane ruffles and filopodia ( Fig . 3 , a and c ) ,	result
suggesting that the defect in migration was not caused by an incapacity to polymerize actin or to organize these structures	implication
Large , immature focal adhesions were also found in each cell line ( Fig . 3 , b and d ) ,	result
showing that the initial pathways forming these contacts were intact in PTP-PEST ( -/- ) cells	implication

The results show	implication
that there are clear binding partners for each of the singly phosphorylated bait peptides of the Y-E-Y motifs ( Figure 4 )	implication
All three Y-E-Y motifs contain a binding site for PI3K at the first tyrosine residue ( Y1197 , Y1222 and Y1260 ; pY-E-Y )	result
, and two motifs contain a binding site for Grb2 at the second tyrosine residue ( Y1199 and Y1268 ; Y-E-pY ) .	result
The Y-E-Y motif with phosphorylated tyrosine residue Y1224 ( Y-E-pY ) did not result in specific binding of any protein .	result
PI3K , as well as Grb2 , also interacted with the doubly phosphorylated bait peptides .	result
However , Grb2 interaction was weaker with the doubly phosphorylated bait peptides , compared to the interaction with the singly phosphorylated peptide , including the Grb2 binding site .	result
Apparently , the doubly phosphorylated regions did not have characteristic specific interaction partners .	result
Since both tyrosine residues are very close together , only one of the two possible interaction partners can bind at a time , and	none
it remains open if the doubly phosphorylated form actually occurs in vivo	none

One explanation for why Wnt5a is unable to inhibit Wnt3a-mediated beta-catenin signaling when mFz4 is overexpressed is	hypothesis
that in 293Fz4 cells , increased mFz4 receptor binding sites may titrate available Wnt5a protein away from an alternative receptor carrying out its inhibitory function	hypothesis
To investigate this hypothesis	goal
, we turned to the orphan receptor mRor2 , a single-pass transmembrane tyrosine kinase with proposed kinase-dependent and -independent activities [ 25 , 42 ] .	method
mRor2 is an appealing candidate receptor mediating Wnt5a 's inhibitory activity because Wnt5a and mRor2 have overlapping expression patterns	fact
, their knockout phenotypes are similar , and mRor2 has been shown previously to act synergistically with Wnt5a to activate Jun kinase [ 22- 26 ] .	fact
In addition , CAM-1 , the C. elegans Ror2 homolog , has been shown to inhibit canonical Wnt signaling-mediated cell migration ,	result
although the Wnt ligand mediating this inhibition remains to be determined [ 21 ]	result

A recent study indicates that tyrosine 1057 of VEGFR-2 also serves as a binding site for c-Cbl by directly interacting with its tyrosine kinase binding (TKB) domain [14],	implication
raising an interesting possibility as to whether c-Cbl and c-Src competitively bind to Y1057 or c-Cbl acts to bridge c-Src to VEGFR-2	hypothesis
since c-Cbl is known to interact with c-Src via its SH3 domain [22].	fact
To test these two distinct possibilities,	goal
we used PAE cells co-expressing CKR either with wild type c-Cbl or Cbl-N,	method
where the TKB domain is deleted [14]	fact
and analyzed the ability of GST-SH2 domain of c-Src to interact with VEGFR-2.	method
Over-expression of wild type c-Cbl enhanced association of SH2 domain of c-Src with VEGFR-2, where disabling the binding of c-Cbl with VEGFR-2 had no effect on the binding of SH2-Src to VEGFR-2 (Figure 2A).	result
Quantification of the blots (three independent experiments)	method
showed that indeed interaction of VEGFR-2 with GST-SH2-Src is more than doubled when c-Cbl is over-expressed, where as the deletion of TKB domain almost entirely is inhibited this effect of c-Cbl (Figure 2B).	result
Over-expression of either c-Cbl or c-Cbl-N had no effect on the protein levels of CKR or on its tyrosine phosphorylation (Figure 2C, 2D).	result
Expression of c-Cbl and c-Cbl-N also is shown (Figure 2E).	result
Since up-regulation of c-Cbl by over-expression enhanced association of c-Src with VEGFR-2,	result
we further tested whether silencing expression of c-Cbl by siRNA would reduce interaction of SH2-Src with VEGFR-2.	goal
As shown, silencing the expression of c-Cbl in PAE cells reduced the binding of GST-SH2 Src with VEGFR-2 (Figure 2F).	result
Quantification of the blots (three independent experiments) is also shown	result
which further support the hypothesis that endogenous c-Cbl plays a role in bridging c-Src to VEGFR-2 (Figure 2G).	implication
The silencing effect of c-Cbl-siRNA on the c-Cbl protein level also is shown (Figure 2H).	result
It showed be noted that c-Cbl is highly expressed in these cells and siRNA only partially reduced its expression (Figure 2H).	result
Altogether, the data show that c-Cbl, in part, facilitates association of Src with VEGFR-2.	implication
To firmly establish a direct binding of SH2 domain of c-Src with phospho-Y1057 of VEGFR-2	goal
we synthesized a phosphorylated peptide corresponding to Y1057 and tested its binding ability to GST-SH2 domain of c-Src in an in vitro dot blot assay.	method
The result shows that SH2 domain of Src also directly interacts with phosphorylated Y1057 in a c-Cbl independent manner (Figure 2J),	result
suggesting that the interaction of c-Src with Y1057 of VEGFR-2 is established by a direct binding involving its SH2 domain and an indirect interaction involving c-Cbl.	implication
Figure 2K summarizes our observation regarding interaction of c-Src with VEGFR-2 and role of c-Cbl in this process.	result

Wnt5a protein was also assayed for its ability	method
to directly stimulate intracellular calcium flux	method
that Wnt5a protein treatment at high doses does not alter the intracellular concentration of Ca 2+ in 293 cells , although subsequent ionomycin treatment of the same cells promotes robust Ca 2+ flux	result
Similar results were observed in 293 cells stably expressing mouse Fz4 ( mFz4 ) ;	result
a Wnt receptor thought to be involved in Wnt-stimulated calcium flux ( Figure 3C ) [ 40 ]	hypothesis
In addition , transient treatment with Wnt5a protein does not activate other Ca 2+-sensitive reporter constructs such as an NFAT-responsive luciferase reporter ( unpublished data ) .	result
These data taken together strongly suggest	implication
that Wnt-stimulated Ca 2+ flux is not the direct mechanism utilized by Wnt5a to inhibit canonical Wnt signaling	implication

While we investigated the effects of PTP-PEST targeting in cell migration , another protein involved with the actin cytoskeleton , PSTPIP , was cloned and shown	method
to be a substrate for a PTP of the PEST family , PTP-HSCF ( Spencer et al. , 1997 )	result
A putative coiled-coil region of PSTPIP interacts with the COOH-terminal , proline-rich region of PTP-HSCF ( Dowbenko et al. , 1998 ) , a region	result
that is conserved in all members of the PEST family , including PTP-PEST	fact

These results suggest	implication
that the PTP-PEST ( -/- ) cells are primed for attachment and spreading via integrin-stimulated pathways , and that PTP-PEST has a physiological role in regulating this event	implication
The negative role of PTP-PEST in cell spreading is consistent with its role described above in cell migration via the breakdown of cell-substratum links .	fact

The ErbB family contains a total of 89 cytosolic tyrosine residues .	fact
In order to carry out a systematic analysis of binding partners to the corresponding phosphotyrosine motifs	goal
, the proteomic peptide-protein interaction screen had to be optimized and streamlined .	method
In the process of scaling up the method , desthiobiotin instead of biotin was used as the tagging reagent during peptide synthesis .	method
Desthiobiotinylated peptides were then immobilized on streptavidin-coated magnetic beads ( Dynabeads MyOne Streptavidin )	method
, and after incubation with cell lysate , bait peptides and proteins bound to them were eluted with biotin .	method
Bait peptides were removed from the reaction by precipitation of proteins .	method
As a consequence , eluted proteins did not have	method
to be separated over SDS-PAGE prior to analysis by mass spectrometry	method
This eliminated the time-consuming in-gel digestion step and reduced the number of LC-MS/MS experiments from at least six to one run per pull-down experiment .	result
Furthermore , in-solution digests are more readily automatable and can be performed at a scale of hundreds or thousands .	fact
Thus , the improved method allows interaction profiling at a system-wide scale .	implication

ErbB3 contains three pairs of tyrosine residues	fact
that are separated by one glutamic acid residue comprising Y1197 and Y1199 , Y1222 and Y1224	fact
These Y-E-Y motifs were not found in any of the other ErbB-receptors ,	result
suggesting that these regions may perhaps have specific interaction partners also in the doubly phosphorylated state , or that double phosphorylation enhances or abolishes interaction of proteins in the singly phosphorylated peptides	implication
To investigate this question , we used the Y-E-Y regions as bait peptides in unphosphorylated , singly phosphorylated and doubly phosphorylated states , with cell lysates	method
that were metabolically labeled with either 12C6-arginine ( Arg0 ) , 13C6-arginine ( Arg6 ) or 15N4 13C6-arginine ( Arg10 ) and used in pull-down experiments with unphosphorylated , singly phosphorylated and doubly phosphorylated bait peptides	method

Because MAPK does not seem to have an NES-like sequence , we thought	fact
that some other NES-possessing molecules may convey MAPK from the nucleus to the cytoplasm	hypothesis
As MAPKK has an NES at its NH2 terminus ( Fukuda et al . 1996 ) and specifically binds to MAPK ( Fukuda et al . 1997a )	fact
, we hypothesized that MAPKK is a possible carrier of MAPK .	hypothesis
To perform this function , however , MAPKK must enter the nucleus at least transiently ,	hypothesis
although MAPKK mostly localizes to the cytoplasm ( Lenormand et al . 1993 ; Zheng and Guan 1994 ; Moriguchi et al . 1995 )	fact
To examine whether MAPKK is able to shuttle between the cytoplasm and the nucleus	goal
, we carried out the following experiment .	method
In quiescent 3Y1 cells ,	method
HA-tagged MAPKK was expressed by the plasmid injection	method
Then , location of the injected anti-HA antibody was examined .	method
In the absence of HA-MAPKK , the anti-HA antibody remained in the nucleus ,	result
while in the presence of the expressed HA-MAPKK , most of anti-HA antibody became detected in the cytoplasm ( Fig . 3A and Fig	result
B ) .	result
These results are interpreted as indicating that HA-MAPKK expressed in the cytoplasm enters the nucleus where HA-MAPKK binds to anti-HA antibody	implication
, and then the HA-MAPKK/anti-HA antibody complex is exported from the nucleus .	implication
Therefore , MAPKK has now been shown to shuttle between the cytoplasm and the nucleus constantly .	implication
Moreover , our finding with the indirect immunofluorescent cell staining method	result
that nuclear entry of MAPKK can be clearly detected as early as 10 min after LMB treatment of the cells ( Fukuda et al . 1997b )	result

The subcellular localization of PAG was analyzed by immunofluorescence in fixed and permeabilized Raji cells .	method
Confocal laser scan microscopy demonstrated that PAG predominantly localizes to the plasma membrane ( Fig . 6 A )	result
; similar results were observed in Jurkat cells ( not shown ) .	result
To further analyze in which membrane compartment PAG is localized	goal
, Jurkat cells were lysed in Brij58 detergent and subjected to sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation .	method
As shown in Fig . 6 B , nearly all PAG was present in buoyant , detergent-resistant GEMs ;	result
when cells were solubilized in laurylmaltoside ( which effectively dissolves GEMs ) , all PAG was detected exclusively in the dense fractions of the gradient ( Fig . 6 B ) .	result
Thus , the major portion of PAG is localized in the plasma membrane , namely in the subcompartment corresponding to GEMs .	implication

Requirement of PI3K activity for F. novicida-induced NFkappaB activation suggested	hypothesis
that SHIP may regulate F. novicida-stimulated NFkappaB activation .	hypothesis
To test this prediction	goal
, RAW 264.7 cells were transfected with NFkappaB-luciferase construct alone along with either a construct encoding SHIP or the corresponding empty vector .	method
Transfectants were then infected with F. novicida , and	method
luciferase activity in the cell lysates was measured as an indicator of NFkappaB activation .	method
As expected	result
, overexpression of SHIP significantly ( p < 0.04 ) suppressed NFkappaB-dependent reporter gene expression ( Figure 7A ) .	result
Overexpression of SHIP in the transfected cells was confirmed by Western blotting SHIP immunoprecipitates with SHIP antibody ( Figure 7B ) .	result

Addition of CHX to serum-stimulated CCL39 cells did not modify the activity ( Fig . 5 ) nor the levels of p42/p44 MAPK ( data not shown ) .	result
Indeed , CHX treatment did not affect serum stimulation of p42/p44 MAPK measured at 7 min (	result
compare lanes 4 and 5	result
) or at 60 min ( compare lanes 7 and 8 ) .	result
CHX treatment even enhanced activation of p42/ p44 MAPK at 3 h ( compare lanes 10 and 11 ) ,	result
which is in accordance to previous observations ( 7 ) .	result
The prolongation of MAPK activation by CHX treatment may be a consequence of	hypothesis
blocking the inducible expression of specific MAPK phosphatases of the MKP family : MKP-1 ( 45 ) , MKP-2 ( 20 , 34 ) , and MKP-3 ( 19 , 36 ) .	hypothesis
Thus , the inhibition of p42/p44 MAPK nuclear translocation by CHX treatment , observed in Fig . 4 , can not be attributed to inhibition of the p42/p44 MAPK signaling pathway .	implication
Furthermore , we were able to rule out the possibility	goal
that CHX exerted its action via nonspecific effects since inhibition of protein synthesis by 100 ng/ml anisomycin and inhibition of transcription by 5 mug/ml actinomycin D also prevented p42/ p44 MAPK nuclear localization after serum or DeltaRaf-1 : ER chimera stimulation ( data not shown ) .	result
In addition , we ruled out a possible effect of CHX via activation of JNK/ p38 stress-activated protein kinases ( SAPK ) by	goal
showing that IL1-beta or low concentrations of anisomycin ( two potent activators of SAPKs ) did not change the nuclear accumulation of MAPKs in response to serum .	result
Finally , by	method
analyzing the localization of the transcription factor SP1 , MEK , or a nuclear form of MEK ( NLS : MEK )	method
, we ruled out unspecific effects of CHX on the nuclear import/export of proteins in general ( data not shown ) .	goal
Taken together , these experiments clearly demonstrate	implication
that the transcriptional stimulation driven by p42/p44 MAPK activation and the resulting protein neosynthesis are absolutely required for the nuclear accumulation of p42/p44 MAPK observed after 1-3 h of mitogenic stimulation .	implication

Besides these identical sequences , the ErbB-receptor family also has a highly conserved region around Y915 ( EGFR ) , Y923 ( ErbB2 ) , Y912 ( ErbB3 ) and Y921 ( ErbB4 ) ,	result
to which no interaction partner was found	result
Similar to Y944 , Y915 was also shown	result
to be a Src-kinase phosphorylation site in EGFR ( Stover et al , 1995 )	result
Two other conserved regions are around Y1197 ( EGFR ) , Y1248 ( ErbB2 ) and Y1284 ( ErbB4 ) , as well as around Y727 ( EGFR ) , Y735 ( ErbB2 ) and Y733 ( ErbB4 ) .	result
All six corresponding phosphopeptides showed specific interactions to Shc .	result
It is interesting	implication
to note that ErbB3 clearly differs from the other three receptors with respect to its interaction partners and conserved regions around tyrosine residues	implication

ErbB family members show high homology in the kinase domain ( 59-81 % identity ) ,	result
whereas the C-terminal domains are more divergent ( 11-25 % identity )	result
ErbB3 was the receptor showing the weakest homology to the other three receptors .	result
Nevertheless , characteristic sequences around two tyrosine residues are identical in all four receptors : tyrosines Y900 of EGFR , Y908 of ErbB2 , Y897 of ErbB3 and Y906 of ErbB4 , all are embedded in the sequence SDVWSYGVTVW ; and	result
tyrosine Y944 of EGFR , Y952 of ErbB2 , Y941 of ErbB3 and Y950 of ErbB4 , all have the identical sequence CTIDVYMIMVK ( underlined and color coded in Figure 1 )	result
Tyrosine 944 of the EGF-receptor is phosphorylated by Src-kinase ( Stover et al , 1995 ) .	fact
To both of these shared tyrosine-containing sequences no interaction partners were found ,	result
suggesting that these sequences are conserved for structural functions or that they mediate other types of effects	implication
Furthermore , two pairs of phosphotyrosine-containing sequences are identical in EGFR and ErbB2 .	result
One of these pairs ( pY764 in EGFR and pY772 in ErbB2 ) has no interaction partner and the other ( pY10l6 in EGFR and pY1023 in ErbB2 ) mediates interaction with PTP-2c .	result
In addition , the protein sequence around pY978 in EGFR and pY984 in ErbB4 is identical , and in our experiments , binds STAT5 and PTP-2c	result
when phosphorylated	result

Inhibition of VEGF-stimulated eNOS Ser1177 phosphorylation has previously been reported in HUVECs infected with adenoviruses expressing either dominant negative PKB or dominant negative AMPK under conditions of hypoxia ,	result
while under normoxic conditions , dominant negative AMPK was without any effect [ 15 ] .	result
In contrast , we have demonstrated	result
that AMPK contributes to VEGF-stimulated eNOS phosphorylation and NO production under normoxic conditions ( Figs .	result
3 and 4 ) .	result
Given the effects of wortmannin and Ad.alpha1DN , we propose	hypothesis
that VEGF stimulates both PKB and AMPK-mediated phosphorylation of eNOS at Ser1177 under normoxic conditions .	hypothesis
Similarly , both PKB and AMPK-mediated phosphorylation of eNOS at Ser1177 has previously been suggested	hypothesis
to occur in response to adiponectin in HUVECs [ 18 ] .	hypothesis
As incubation of HAECs with wortmannin does not alter AMPK activity	fact
, AMPK does not act downstream of PI3K in the response to VEGF in HAECs ( Fig . 2 ) .	result
It remains possible that AMPK could act upstream of PKB in VEGF-stimulated eNOS phosphorylation , but	hypothesis
this seems unlikely because we have previously demonstrated that infection with Ad.alpha1DN does not alter PKB phosphorylation in HAECs [ 9 ] .	implication

A common feature of proteins endowed with GEF catalytic activity is their ability to bind to their specific nucleotide-depleted GTPase with relative high affinities.	fact
Thus, one might postulate that Sos-1 associates with the nucleotide-free form of Rac exclusively when engaged in the S/E/E8 complex.	hypothesis
Purified and nucleotide depleted, GST-Rac and GST-Cdc42 proteins were therefore used to test their ability to interact with Sos-1.	method
Native Sos-1, present in lysates of -/- [Eps8myc] fibroblasts, could be specifically recovered with nucleotide-depleted immobilized GST-Rac, but not with GST-Cdc42 or GST alone (Fig. 7 C).	result
Conversely, no Sos-1 could be recovered with GST-Rac from lysates of	result
eps8-/- cell	result
Thus, Eps8 is required for the association between Sos-1 and nucleotide-free Rac.	implication
Furthermore, under conditions in which the Eps8-E3b1 or the E3b1-Sos-1 interactions were disrupted by specifically competing peptides, a reduction of >80% in the amount of Sos-1 bound to nucleotide-depleted Rac was observed (Fig. 7 C).	result
This latter result strongly suggests that an intact S/E/E8 complex is required for binding to Rac, providing a molecular basis for the catalytic specificity of the complex.	implication

An analysis of the recruitment dynamics of fluorescently tagged proteins to laser-induced DNA damage showed similar recruitment kinetics for NBS1 and MDC1 , and highlighted the importance of the FHA domain of NBS in this recruitment ( Lukas et al , 2004 ) .	result
Therefore , we thought	hypothesis
that the MDC1-MRN interaction , which depends on the FHA/BRCT2 domains of NBS1 , might promote retention of the MRN complex in IRIF	hypothesis
To test this , we used siRNA	goal
to deplete endogenous MDC1 in U2OS cells stably expressing siRNA-resistant wild-type MDC1 ( MDC1WT ) or an MDC1 mutant without the SDTD region ( MDC1SDTDDelta ; Fig 4A ; supplementary Fig S3A online )	method
The wild-type MDC1 derivative efficiently co-immunoprecipitated MRN at physiological salt concentrations ,	result
whereas only low levels of MRN were recovered in immunoprecipitates of the MDC1SDTDDelta mutant ( Fig 4B ) , consistent with the SDTD region being the principal MRN interaction interface	result
This residual interaction with MRN shown by the MDC1SDTDDelta mutant raises the possibility of other MDC1-MRN interactions , and would be consistent with previous findings ( Goldberg et al , 2003 )	hypothesis
; however , it is noteworthy that this weaker interaction was undetectable under higher salt conditions ( supplementary Fig S3B online ) .	result
Moreover ,	result
although both MDC1WT and MDC1SDTDDelta efficiently formed IRIF	result
By contrast , IRIF formation by 53BP1 and BRCA1 was normal after expression of either form of MDC1 ( Fig 4D ; supplementary Fig S4A online ) .	result
This is consistent with 53BP1 and BRCA1 requiring the RNF8-binding motifs of MDC1 that are still intact in the MDC1SDTDDelta mutant ( Fig 4A ) , and shows	implication
that the SDTD region of MDC1 specifically mediates IRIF formation by NBS1 by promoting efficient MDC1-MRN interactions	implication

To assess the levels of accumulated beta-catenin protein	goal
, we prepared cytosolic extracts from 293 cells treated for 3 h with Wnt3a protein , Wnt5a protein , or both .	method
Cellular fractionation is necessary	method
to ensure that only cytosolic beta-catenin protein stabilized due to active Wnt signaling is observed as opposed to the relatively stable membrane-associated pool of beta-catenin protein	method
Although a particularly low dose of Wnt3a protein ( 10 ng/ml ) was used in this analysis to ensure that subtle differences in beta-catenin protein levels could be discerned	method
, no appreciable reduction in beta-catenin accumulation was observed ( Figure 2A ) , even when concentrations of Wnt5a protein ( 200 ng/ml ) sufficient to inhibit the STF reporter 5-fold were used .	result
These data show	implication
that the Wnt3a signal is initiated in the presence of Wnt5a protein , indicating that Wnt5a does not efficiently compete with Wnt3a for receptor binding sites	implication

PH domains have been identified in other signaling molecules as protein-protein and/or protein-phospholipid interaction motifs	result
that are required for the controlled targeting of these proteins to the plasma membrane ( Lemmon et al. , 1996 )	result
In tissue sections of skin and certain carcinomas , endogenous Tiam1 is predominantly present in the cytoplasm .	fact
Also in some cell lines ,	fact
where we can envision endogenous Tiam1 by Western blotting , including T-lymphoma cells and neuronal cells	fact
So far , however , we have not been able	result
to identify a receptor-mediated signaling pathway involving Tiam1 activation	result
To investigate whether membrane translocation of exogenous Tiam1 could be visualized in NIH3T3 cells	goal
, we analyzed whether serum could affect the localization and capacity of Tiam1 to induce membrane ruffling .	method
As shown in Fig . 8 A , NIH3T3 cells transiently expressing the C1199 Tiam1 protein showed no membrane ruffling after serum starvation for 24 h. Almost no Tiam1 protein was present at the plasma membrane	result
, and F-actin was mostly concentrated in lamellipodia in the Tiam1-expressing cells .	result
Since these optical sections were taken at the basal site of the cells to illustrate the lamellipodia	method
, stress fibers are also visible .	result
Note	result
that after serum starvation for 24 h , NIH3T3 cells still contain some stress fibers , in contrast to Swiss 3T3 cells	result
Immuno-EM confirmed	result
that most of the cells contained significantly less Tiam1 at the plasma membrane after serum starvation ( Fig . 8 , D and F )	result
The residual membrane-associated Tiam1 might be sufficient for the presence of lamellipodia under these conditions .	hypothesis
Addition of serum induced membrane localization and subsequent ruffling of C1199 Tiam1-expressing cells after 2 h ( Fig . 8 , B and E ) ,	result
at which time point seruminduced stress fibers have already decreased	result
A quantification of these results is presented in Fig .	result
8 F. Similar results were obtained with FL1591 Tiam1 , C1199-DeltaPHc , and C1199DeltaDHR Tiam1	result
In contrast , after 24 h of serum starvation the MS-C580 Tiam1 protein remained at the plasma membrane and still induced membrane ruffling ( Fig . 8 C ) .	result
This suggests	implication
that the serum-induced membrane translocation of Tiam1 is mediated by the NH2-terminal PH domain	implication

NIK was originally identified as a kinase	fact
that participates in an NF-kappaB-inducing signaling cascade induced by TNF , CD95 , and IL-1 6	fact
To assess the impact of NIK mutation in TNF responsiveness , we treated EFs from both wild-type and aly mice with human TNF ,	goal
which signals only through mouse TNFR-I 23 , and assessed NF-kappaB activation by Western blot analysis	method
Rapid IkappaBalpha degradation concomitant with the appearance of phosphorylated IkappaBalpha was observed with similar kinetics in EFs from both wild-type and aly mice ( Fig . 1 A ) .	result
30 min after stimulation with TNF , IkappaBalpha started	result
to recover similarly in both wild-type and aly mice ( Fig . 1 B )	result
IkappaBbeta degradation in response to TNF was also indistinguishable between wild-type and aly mice ( data not shown ) .	result
We also tested TNF responsiveness by	method
titrating the TNF concentration between 0.1 and 100 U/ml	method
In this range , TNF sensitivity assessed by IkappaBalpha degradation , and	result
IkappaBalpha phosphorylation was indistinguishable between wild-type and aly mice ( Fig . 1 C )	result
Using an NF-kappaB-binding oligonucleotide probe in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( EMSA )	method
, we also observed a very similar level of NF-kappaB activation between wild-type and aly mice in TNF-stimulated EFs or TNF-stimulated thymocytes ( data not shown ) .	result
Furthermore , IL-1 and IL-6 production from TNF-stimulated EFs was indistinguishable between wild-type and aly mice ( data not shown ) .	result
These results demonstrate	implication
that NF-kappaB activation through TNFR-I is not affected by the NIK mutation	implication

Using a polyclonal antibody raised against PSTPIP	method
, we analyzed its tyrosine phosphorylation level in the PTP-PEST ( -/- ) and ( +/- ) cells by immunoprecipitation , followed by antiphosphotyrosine immunoblotting .	method
Data from Spencer et al .	result
( 1997 ) suggested that PSTPIP tyrosine phosphorylation was controlled by the members of the PEST family of PTPs	result
, and Fig . 7 shows that PSTPIP was hyperphosphorylated in the PTP-PEST knockout cell line .	result
Taken together with the fact that PSTPIP is a direct substrate for PTP-HSCF ( Spencer et al. , 1997 ) , and that this substrate effect required the conserved COOH-terminal proline-rich binding domain	result
, these results suggest that PSTPIP could be a substrate for PTP-PEST in fibroblasts .	implication
The same experiment was performed on PSTPIP2 , a protein with high homology to PSTPIP	method
which binds to the PEST type PTPs but does not contain the SH3 domain , and is not a substrate for the PEST family of PTPs	method
The phosphorylation level of PSTPIP2 was similar in the ( +/- ) and the ( -/- ) cell lines ( data not shown ) , suggesting the presence of another level of specificity , such as substrate recognition/activity in PTP-PEST .	result

Recently , it was demonstrated	fact
that Akt serine-threonine kinase is involved in the activation of NF-kappaB by TNF 24	fact
Although the results described above do not suggest a role for NIK in TNFR-I signaling	implication
, it is possible that NIK plays an important role in NF-kappaB activation in combination with Akt .	hypothesis
We therefore tested the combined effect of NIK and Akt in the NF-kappaB-inducing pathway downstream of the TNFR-I .	method
IkappaBalpha degradation occurred 10 min after TNF stimulation in wild-type EFs , even in the presence of 1 muM wortmannin , a sufficient concentration for blockade of the PI ( 3 ) K-Akt pathway ( references 24 and 25 ; Fig . 1 D ) .	result
This suggests	implication
that Akt , the downstream target of PI ( 3 ) K , by itself has no major role in NF-kappaB activation by TNF	implication
Additionally , no obvious effect of wortmannin on IkappaBalpha degradation was observed in aly mouse EFs ,	result
indicating that NF-kappaB activation by TNF can occur even when the functions of both NIK and Akt are inhibited	implication
We failed to observe phosphorylation of Akt in response to TNF	result
when we probed the same blot with phospho-specific anti-Akt Ab in this experimental setting ( data not shown )	result
These results suggest	implication
that neither NIK nor Akt is essential for NF-kappaB activation by TNF and that other IKK kinase ( s ) can substitute for NIK and Akt in NF-kappaB activation by TNF , at least in EFs	implication
Elucidation of the IKK kinase ( s )	none
that activates IKK in response to TNF	none

We also investigated the functional relationship between Rag and Rheb in vivo through genetic studies in Drosophila .	goal
To test whether dRagC is required for Rheb to stimulate cell growth	goal
, the effect of Rheb overexpression on fat body cell size was examined in dRagC-/- cells .	method
Mutation of dRagC did not block the growth stimulatory effect of Rheb overexpression ( Fig . 6a , b ) .	result
In fact , Rheb overexpression induced a greater relative cell size increase in a dRagC-/- genetic background .	result
Similarly , Rheb overexpression has been shown to have a stronger effect on cell size under starvation conditions38 ,	result
further suggesting that nutrient signaling is impaired in dRagC mutants	implication
We also examined the effect of Rheb loss of function under conditions of dRagA Q61L activation , and found	method
that Rheb mutant cells were smaller than neighboring wild type cells both in control animals and in animals ubiquitously expressing dRagA Q61L throughout the fat body ( Fig 6c , d )	result
These data indicate	implication
that dRagA and dRagC are not required for Rheb to stimulate cell growth	implication
We also found	result
that the increase in cell size in response to dRagA Q61L expression was partially or completely suppressed in two different Rheb hypomorphic mutant backgrounds ( data not shown )	result
Together , these data suggest	implication
that Rag acts parallel or upstream of Rheb to stimulate cell growth	implication

Wnt5a protein inhibits Wnt3a signaling at the earliest time points following reporter activation .	result
When cells are pretreated with Wnt3a protein for 1 or 3 h prior to Wnt5a treatment	method
, Wnt5a can inhibit Wnt3a-induced reporter activation within 1 h of exposure ( Figure 1D ) .	result
In addition , Wnt5a pretreatment of cells for 8 h followed by washing has no effect on either Wnt3a-induced STF reporter activation or Wnt5a-mediated inhibition , suggesting	result
that Wnt5a does not induce the accumulation of an inhibitory factor ( Figure 1E )	implication
These data taken together indicate	implication
that purified Wnt5a protein is sufficient to rapidly inhibit canonical Wnt signaling in a potentially post-translational fashion	implication

For a total of 25 phosphotyrosines , a single interaction partner was found , and	result
for 13 additional tyrosine residues , we found more than one interacting protein ( Table I )	result
Not surprisingly , 49 out of the 89 investigated	result
tyrosine residues did not have an interaction partner to their phosphorylated form	result
Most of the tyrosine residues without interaction partners are located in and around the kinase domain ,	result
whereas the residues that interacted with specific partners accumulated at the C-terminal regions of the receptors	result
Strikingly , all binding partners with a significant ratio in our assay had either an SH2 or a PTB domain .	result

Immuno-EM analyses of transfected COS cells showed	result
that all mutant proteins were equally present in the cytoplasm and at the plasma membrane ( Fig . 5 ) , except for mutant C1199 Tiam1 , which contains a deletion in the NH2terminal PH domain ( C1199-DeltaPHn )	result
This protein was almost exclusively localized in the cytoplasm ( Fig . 5 D ) , similar to the C682 Tiam1 protein ( Fig . 2 B ) .	result
The C1199-DeltaDH Tiam1 protein ,	result
which carries a deletion in the catalytic DH domain and does not induce membrane ruffling	result
This clearly shows	implication
that membrane localization of Tiam1 is not a consequence of the induction of membrane ruffling	implication
Therefore , it can be concluded	implication
that the NH2-terminal PH domain is essential for the membrane localization of C1199 Tiam1 and that this membrane localization is required for the formation of membrane ruffles	implication

To investigate the role of Apg12 conjugation of Apg5	goal
, we generated an APG5-/- clone expressing GFP-Apg5K130R ( GKR-1 ) .	method
Western blot analysis confirmed	method
that GFP-Apg5K130R was not conjugated with Apg12 ( data not shown ) .	result
In amino acid-starved GKR-1 cells , numerous punctate GFP signals were observed ( Fig . 5 H ) .	result
The GFP-Apg5K130R dots were slightly increased in number , about twice as many as those in	result
starved wild-type ( GFP24 ) cells .	result
Apg12 was not recruited to the GFP-Apg5K130R spots ( data not shown ) .	result
Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated	method
that the crescent-shaped compartments were generated , to which GFP-Apg5K130R localized ( Fig . 6 D ) .	result
These results clearly indicate	implication
that Apg12 conjugation is not required for membrane association of Apg5 .	implication
However , autolysosomes were not detected in starved GKR-1 cells .	result
Time-lapse video microscopy demonstrated	method
that the GFP-Apg5K130R-associated spots did not mature into cup-shaped structures and basically remained as punctate spots ( Fig . 7 A and video 4 ) .	result
These results suggest	hypothesis
that Apg12 conjugation is required for involvement of Apg5 in elongation of the membrane to form cup-shaped isolation membrane and autophagosome .	hypothesis
This is in agreement with the data	result
that bulk protein degradation was not restored in KR27 cells ( Fig . 3 B ) .	result

It has been proposed	hypothesis
that the C. elegans Ror protein CAM-1 has tyrosine kinase-independent functions [ 42 , 44 ] and that Xenopus XRor2 can function in the absence of its cytoplasmic domain [ 45 ]	hypothesis
We thus created a membrane-tethered variant of mRor2 ( mRor2-GPI )	method
to assay whether mRor2 could still function in the absence of its transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains	goal
Expression of mRor2-GPI reduced Wnt5a 's ability to inhibit Wnt3a-induced STF reporter activation	result
when transfected into 293 cells as compared to cells transfected with the reporters alone ( Figure 6D )	result
In addition , when Ror2-GPI was transfected into cells in conjunction with wild-type mRor2 , mRor2-GPI blocked wild-type mRor2 's enhancement of Wnt5a-mediated inhibition ,	result
suggesting that the membrane-tethered variant of mRor2 serves as a dominant negative	implication
The fact that expression of mRor2-GPI alone did not enhance Wnt5a-mediated inhibition indicates	result
that the cytoplasmic , and potentially the transmembrane , domain is required for mRor2 to carry out its inhibitory function	implication

An overview of the distribution of the interaction partners of the different members of the ErbB-receptor family shows clear differences between individual receptors , but also a large overlap ( Figure 1 , Supplementary Table I ) .	result
EGFR is the family member with most interaction partners and the highest percentage of tyrosine residues with more than one binding partner .	result
ErbB3 is characterized by a large number of binding sites for phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase ( PI3K ) ,	result
while ErbB2 has only few interaction partners with Shc as the most frequent one	result
ErbB4 and EGFR have a variety of phosphotyrosines that bind Grb2 , or Grb2 and Shc .	result
EGFR and ErbB4 have a greater diversity of interaction partners than ErbB2 and ErbB3 .	result
All interactions found in this study have been submitted to the public Molecular INTeraction database ( Zanzoni et al , 2002 ) .	method

A search of published databases for the post-translational modifications of MDC1 identified many phosphorylation sites ;	result
however , two studies ( Beausoleil et al , 2004 ; Olsen et al , 2006 ) identified eight sites within a cluster of short-repeat sequences that shared the consensus motif Ser-Asp-Thr-Asp ( SDTD ) in which both the serine and threonine are phosphorylated	fact
This SDTD motif is repeated six times between Ser 218 and Asp 455 in human MDC1 , and	fact
similar evolutionarily conserved motifs exist in MDC1 orthologues in other vertebrates ( Fig 1A )	fact

TLR ligands , particularly LPS and CpG 32 , 33 , also stimulate the survival of B cells .	fact
To examine the role of Peli1 in TLR-driven survival	goal
, we incubated Peli1+/+ and Peli1-/- B cells in vitro in the presence of different TLR ligands .	method
In the absence of TLR ligands , Peli1+/+ B cells underwent massive apoptosis , as determined by	result
staining with annexin-V and PI	result
After culture for 24 hours , less than 20 % of the cells were negative for both PI and annexin-V ( Fig . 3c , live cells ) , but	result
the spontaneous death of Peli1+/+ B cells was greatly inhibited by LPS and CpG and moderately inhibited by several other TLR ligands ( Fig . 3c )	result
However , loss of Peli1 severely attenuated the pro-survival effects of LPS , poly ( I : C ) , and CpG ( Fig . 3c ) .	result
Thus , Peli1 mediates TLR3 and TLR4-driven induction of costimulatory gene expression , proliferation and survival in B cells .	implication

We then tested the effect of RagA T21N on Rheb induced S6K phosphorylation .	method
Expression of RagA T21N and RagC Q120L potently blocked basal S6K phosphorylation but did not inhibit Rheb-induced S6K phosphorylation ( Fig . 5d ) .	result
Amino acid starvation also failed	result
to block the stimulatory effect of Rheb on S6K phosphorylation ( data not shown )	result
These data exclude a model	implication
that Rag functions downstream of Rheb but are consistent with Rag acting either parallel or upstream of Rheb	implication

To examine the mechanism by which SHIP down-regulates pro-inflammatory cytokine production by F. novicida-infected macrophages	goal
, cell signaling events activated in infected macrophages were first analyzed .	method
Here , murine BMMs were infected with F. novicida for varying time points , and	method
the following analyses were performed with the cell lysates and cell supernatants .	method
First , activation of the MAP kinases	method
Erk , p38 , and JNK was analyzed by Western blotting protein-matched lysates with phospho-specific antibodies ( Figure 3A ) .	method
All membranes were reprobed with antibody	method
to actin to ensure equal loading of protein in all lanes .	method
Results indicated	result
that all three MAPKs were activated in response to F. novicida infection as previously reported [ 13 ] .	result
The phosphorylation levels of MAPKs peaked at 30 min and gradually diminished , but were still persistent even at 8 h post infection .	result
Second , we examined the activation of the PI3K pathway by	goal
analyzing phosphorylation status of the PI3K-dependent serine/threonine kinase Akt .	method
The results shown in Figure 3B indicate	result
that the PI3K/Akt pathway is also activated during F. novicida infection .	result
Finally , cell supernatants were analyzed for pro-inflammatory cytokines by ELISA .	method
As seen in Figure 3C , BMMs infected with F. novicida produced significant amounts of the pro-inflammatory mediators IL-12 , IL-6 , and RANTES ,	result
which became detectable at about 5 h post infection .	result

We have previously reported	result
that calpain plays a crucial role in cell death regulation in response to ceramide	result
Indeed , we demonstrated	result
that the lack of calpain activity results in a considerable increase in apoptotic cell death ( Demarchi et al. , 2005 )	result
To further investigate the involvement of calpain in the modulation of alternative types of cell death , in this study	goal
, we address the role of calpain in autophagy .	goal
LC3 is the only available specific marker	result
to detect autophagosomes in mammalian cells ( Kabeya et al. , 2000 )	result

Besides these identical sequences , the ErbB-receptor family also has a highly conserved region around Y915 ( EGFR ) , Y923 ( ErbB2 ) , Y912 ( ErbB3 ) and Y921 ( ErbB4 ) ,	fact
to which no interaction partner was found	result
Similar to Y944 , Y915 was also shown	result
to be a Src-kinase phosphorylation site in EGFR ( Stover et al , 1995 )	result
Two other conserved regions are around Y1197 ( EGFR ) , Y1248 ( ErbB2 ) and Y1284 ( ErbB4 ) , as well as around Y727 ( EGFR ) , Y735 ( ErbB2 ) and Y733 ( ErbB4 ) .	fact
All six corresponding phosphopeptides showed specific interactions to Shc .	result
It is interesting	implication
to note that ErbB3 clearly differs from the other three receptors with respect to its interaction partners and conserved regions around tyrosine residues	implication

The GTPase family proteins are involved in almost every aspects of cellular signaling .	fact
We hypothesized	hypothesis
that amino acid signaling to TORC1 may involve a GTPase ( s )	hypothesis
We performed	method
a RNA interference ( RNAi ) screen of 132 annotated Drosophila GTPases using Drosophila S2 cells and looking for the GTPases whose silencing prevents amino acid-induced phosphorylation and mobility shift of dS6K in S2 cells ( Fig . 1a )	method
CG11968 and CG8707 were identified as important for dS6K phosphorylation in response to amino acids ( Fig . 1a ) .	result
Sequence comparison analyses show	result
that CG11968 is most closely homologous to the yeast Gtr1 and mammalian RagA and RagB , while CG8707 is homologous to the yeast Gtr2 and mammalian RagC and RagD and therefore named them dRagA and dRagC , respectively ( Fig . 1a )	result
Consistent with results in yeast and mammalian cells	result
, these proteins were previously found to interact in large scale two hybrid screens30 .	result
Knockdown of many other GTPases , such as the Rho family members , had no effect on dS6K phosphorylation ( Fig . 1a ) .	result

In order to understand the mechanism by which TRF2 inhibited ATM	goal
, we determined whether they interacted in vivo .	method
IPs of the ATM kinase from primary human IMR90 fibroblasts resulted in recovery of a small fraction ( approximately 1 % ) of endogenous TRF2 ( Figure 4A ) .	result
This association was accentuated	result
when TRF2 was overexpressed from a retroviral vector .	result
TRF2 was not recovered in anti-ATM immunoprecipitates from A-T cells even when TRF2 was overexpressed ( Figure 4A ) ,	result
demonstrating that the recovery of TRF2 is dependent on the presence of functional ATM .	implication
The co-IP of TRF2 with ATM from IMR90 cells was resistant to the addition of ethidium bromide ( data not shown ) ,	result
arguing that DNA tethering is not responsible for the association .	implication
A control IP with antibodies to the CycD1/Cdk4/Cdk6 kinase complex did not precipitate TRF2 , and	result
an irrelevant nuclear protein ( Nova1 ) , overexpressed in parallel in IMR90 cells , was not recovered in the ATM IP ( Figure 4A ) .	result
The association of TRF2 with ATM was not dependent on the presence of DNA damage ,	result
since neither IR nor UV treatment enhanced the recovery of TRF2 in ATM IPs ( data not shown ) .	result

Similarly ,	result
when CCL39-DeltaRaf-1 : ER cells were stimulated by beta-estradiol , which induced a persistent activation and nuclear accumulation of p42/p44 MAPK ( as shown in Fig . 3 )	result
, addition of CHX was sufficient to trigger the efflux of p42/p44 MAPK from the nucleus ( data not shown ) .	result
As CHX treatment did not abrogate ( and even slightly enhanced ) p42/p44 MAPK activation	result
, we conclude that continuous protein synthesis is required to retain p42/p44 MAPK in the nucleus .	result

In the cytosol, Rac1 is tightly bound to RhoGDI,	fact
and, therefore, it is likely that RhoGDI is either released from Rac1 before Rac1 targeting to the membrane or that Rac1 and RhoGDI are targeted as a complex.	hypothesis
Based on structural analysis, it was suggested that the COOH terminus of Rac1 is not required for	implication
the interaction of Rac1 with RhoGDI (Di Poi et al., 2001; Grizot et al., 2001)	implication
This, in turn, suggests that Rac1 can bind beta-Pix through its COOH terminus even when complexed to RhoGDI.	implication
In line with this, GST-beta-Pix pull-down experiments showed that RhoGDI indeed complexes with beta-P	result
This interaction is blocked by the COOH-terminal Rac1 peptide (Fig. 2 B),	result
indicating that the beta-Pix-RhoGDI interaction is mediated via Rac1.	implication
Of note, the COOH-terminal Rac1 peptide does not bind RhoGDI and does not interfere with the Rac1-RhoGDI interaction (van Hennik et al., 2003; unpublished data)	result
These data suggest that Rac1 can be targeted to the membrane by beta-Pix while in complex with RhoGDI.	implication

To determine whether Wnt5a treatment inhibits beta-catenin nuclear entry	goal
, cell-staining experiments were performed ( Figure 2B ) .	method
The 293 cells treated with vehicle or Wnt5a protein alone display	result
a membrane-associated staining pattern ( arrowheads ) consistent with beta-catenin 's role in cell adhesion	result
By contrast , cells treated with Wnt3a protein alone appeared brighter than vehicle-treated cells , with beta-catenin observed in the cytoplasm and nuclei ( arrows ) .	result
No significant difference in beta-catenin signal intensity or localization was observed	result
when cells were treated with Wnt3a in combination with Wnt5a protein ( Figure 2B )	method
The observation that Wnt3a-mediated beta-catenin stabilization and nuclear entry appear unaffected by Wnt5a treatment suggests	implication
that upregulation of Siah-2 , and subsequent degradation of beta-catenin , is not the primary mechanism of Wnt5a protein-mediated inhibition of gene transcription in these cells	implication

LC3 , the mammalian Atg8 homolog , undergoes a set of modifications resulting in conversion from LC3I to LC3II during autophagy 42 .	fact
To further test the function of Rag in autophagy	goal
, we examined the LC3 modification in HEK293 cells .	method
Expression of RagA QL and RagC SN inhibited LC3 conversion in response to amino acid starvation ( Fig . 7e ) .	result
Furthermore , expression of RagA TN and RagC QL enhanced LC3 conversion even in the presence of amino acids .	result
These results are consistent with the data observed in Drosophila and further demonstrate a role of the Rag GTPases in autophagy regulation in response to nutrient signals .	implication

Prior transfection studies performed using a cell line model suggest	implication
that Peli1 facilitates IL-1R signaling 34	implication
However , it is unknown	hypothesis
whether Peli1 is required for IL-1R signaling under physiological conditions	hypothesis
To address this question , we examined the effect of Peli1 deficiency on IL-1R-mediated pro-inflammatory gene induction in primary MEFs	method
, a cell type that efficiently responds to IL-1beta stimulation .	method
In Peli1+/+ MEFs , IL-1beta stimulated the expression of Tnf and Il6 ,	result
although it did not induce appreciable expression of IL-12p40 ( Fig . 5a and data not shown )	result
IL-1beta also induced expression of Cxcl10 , the gene encoding IP-10 , in Peli1+/+ MEFs .	result
However , loss of Peli1 did not affect IL-1beta-stimulated expression of Tnf , Il6 or Cxcl10 ( Fig . 5a ) .	result
To further examine the role of Peli1 in IL-1R signaling	goal
, we employed an in vivo gene induction model .	method
When injected into Peli1+/+ mice , IL-1beta stimulated production of high concentrations of IL-6 ( Fig . 5b ) ,	result
although it did not induce detectable quantities of TNF ( data not shown )	result
Consistent with the in vitro results	result
, Peli1 was completely dispensable for IL-1beta-induced IL-6 production in vivo ( Fig . 5b ) .	result

To determine whether Wnt5a treatment inhibits beta-catenin nuclear entry	goal
, cell-staining experiments were performed ( Figure 2B ) .	method
The 293 cells treated with vehicle or Wnt5a protein alone display	result
a membrane-associated staining pattern ( arrowheads ) consistent with beta-catenin 's role in cell adhesion	result
By contrast , cells treated with Wnt3a protein alone appeared brighter than vehicle-treated cells , with beta-catenin observed in the cytoplasm and nuclei ( arrows ) .	result
No significant difference in beta-catenin signal intensity or localization was observed	result
when cells were treated with Wnt3a in combination with Wnt5a protein ( Figure 2B )	result
The observation that Wnt3a-mediated beta-catenin stabilization and nuclear entry appear unaffected by Wnt5a treatment suggests	result
that upregulation of Siah-2 , and subsequent degradation of beta-catenin , is not the primary mechanism of Wnt5a protein-mediated inhibition of gene transcription in these cells	implication

Csk downregulates the activity of Src kinases via phosphorylation of negative regulatory tyrosine residues located at the COOH termini of the kinases .	result
To investigate whether membrane targeting of Csk by PAG would lead to altered substrate phosphorylation by Src family kinases , COS cells ( which express endogenous Csk ; Fig . 7 D ) were transiently transfected with cDNA constructs	none
encoding a chimeric zeta molecule composed of the extracellular domain of CD25 ( Tac ) fused to the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of TCR zeta chain ( Tac/zeta/zeta ) , the Src family PTK Fyn , and FLAG-tagged PAG .	method
Cell lysates were subjected to CD25 immunoprecipitation followed by anti-P-Tyr Western blotting .	method
As shown in Fig . 8 A , when coexpressed with Fyn alone	result
, the Tac/zeta/zeta chimera readily became tyrosine phosphorylated .	result
However , when PAG was coexpressed with Fyn and Tac/zeta/zeta , the level of tyrosine phosphorylation of the Tac/zeta/zeta chimera markedly decreased	result
, and this was accompanied by a strong recruitment of endogenously expressed Csk to PAG .	result
Similarly , expression of Csk and PAG resulted in impaired Fyn kinase activity	result
as judged from an experiment in which Fyn autophosphorylation was assessed by in vitro kinase assays of Fyn immunoprecipitates prepared from COS cells transfected with PAG and Csk cDNAs ( Fig . 8 B ) .	result
These experiments indicate a negative regulatory role of PAG in T cell activation based on its ability to recruit Csk to the plasma membrane , followed by downregulation of Src family kinase ( s ) activity and inhibition of tyrosine phosphorylation of substrates such as zeta .	implication
In agreement with a negative regulatory role of PAG during T cell activation was the finding	result
that PAG , when transiently overexpressed in Jurkat cells , downregulated TCR-mediated activation of NF-AT ( Fig . 8 C ) , whereas overexpression of the cytoplasmic adaptor protein SLP-76 upregulated the response as reported previously 49 .	result

Here , we present results of the first modification-dependent protein interaction study involving systematic profiling of binding sites of a whole receptor subfamily .	result
For many receptors ,	fact
the physiological phosphorylation sites are not well documented	fact
The relatively high throughput of our screen allowed systematic study of all tyrosine sites , without	method
making prior assumptions about the baits or their potential interaction partners	method
In particular , we wanted	method
to demonstrate that the throughput of the method is sufficiently high , so that no information about the phosphorylation status ( i.e	method
in vivo phosphorylated or not ) needed	method
to be taken into account	method
Therefore , we chose	method
to study potential interaction partners to all cytosolic tyrosine residues of the ErbB-receptor family in their phosphorylated form in a systematic and unbiased approach	method
Altogether , we analyzed all 94 pairs of synthetic singly phospho- , nonphospho- and doubly phosphopeptides to a total of 89 cytosolic tyrosine residues in the four receptors EGFR , ErbB2 , ErbB3 and ErbB4 .	method

Detection of protein-protein interactions has previously been a balance between specificity ( background reduction ) and affinity ( detection of weak interactions ) .	result
Recently , the introduction of stable isotope labeling ,	method
to distinguish specific from unspecific interaction partners ( Blagoev et al , 2003 ; Ranish et al , 2003 )	method
Based on this principle , we have developed a proteomic screen for peptide motif-based interactions ( Schulze and Mann , 2004 ) .	method
Using synthetic peptide pairs in phosphorylated and unphosphorylated form	method
, pull-down experiments are performed to enrich specific binding partners to the phosphorylated bait peptides .	method
These proteins are subsequently identified and quantified by mass spectrometry .	method
In this study , by further method development , we greatly increased the throughput of the analysis allowing	method
us to profile the entire phosphotyrosine interactome of the ErbB-receptor family	method

Tyrosine 1173 functions as a multitasking residue on VEGFR-2 [3]-[7], [10] and is a bona fide mediator of angiogenic signaling of VEGFR-2 in vivo [11].	fact
Hence we investigated a possible crosstalk between the kinase domain tyrosines (i.e., Y1052 and Y1057) and Y1173 and the potential role of Src kinases in this crosstalk.	goal
For this aim,	goal
we tested phosphorylation of Y1173 in the background of E1052/CKR and E1057/CKR expressed in PAE cells.	method
The result showed that mutation of 1057 markedly reduced ligand-dependent phosphorylation of Y1173 as detected by an anti-phospho-Y1173 specific antibody (Figure 3A).	result
Mutation of Y1052 only slightly reduced phosphorylation of Y1173,	result
suggesting that Y1057 but not	implication
Y1052, is specifically involved in modulation of phosphorylation of Y1173 (Figure 3A).	implication
However, mutation of either Y1052 or Y1057 had no major effect on the phosphorylation Y1212 (Figure 3B).	result
Quantification of phosphorylation of Y1173 and Y1212 obtained from three separate independent experiments also is shown (Figure 3D).	result
Since Src kinase binds to Y1057 of VEGFR-2,	fact
we tested potential role of Src in the phosphorylation of Y1173.	goal
Our analysis showed that co-expression of v-Src with non-chimeric wild-type VEGFR-2 in a transient transfection of HEK-293 cells also increases phosphorylation of Y1173 (Figure 3D), where phosphorylation of Y1052, Y1057 and Y1212 were not effected (Figure 3F-H).	result
The quantification of phosphorylation of Y1173, Y1052, Y1057 and Y1212 also is shown (Figure 3K).	result
Of note, co-expression of v-Src with E1057 mutant VEGFR-2 also rescued the reduced phosphorylation of Y1173 further	result
suggesting that c-Src is involved in catalyzing phosphorylation of Y1173 of VEGFR-2 (data not shown).	implication

Autophagy can be well induced by amino acid starvation in wild-type ES cells ( Fig . 2 A ) as other cultured cells .	result
2 h after amino acid withdrawal , autophagic vacuoles occupied ~1.1 % of the total cytoplasmic volume ( Fig . 2 E ) .	result
Autolysosomes were observed more frequently than autophagosomes (	result
In contrast , no autolysosomes were observed at all in APG5-/- cells , even under amino acid starvation conditions ( Fig . 2B and Fig .	result
Some autophagosome-like structures were induced by starvation ( Fig . 2C and Fig .	result
D ) , but these structures	result
were significantly fewer in number than autophagosomes in wild-type cells ( Fig . 2 E ) .	result
Other organelles , such as mitochondria , the endoplasmic reticulum , the Golgi apparatus , lysosomes , and multivesicular bodies , appeared normal .	result
These results suggest	implication
that , in APG5-/- cells , autophagic degradation does not occur and autophagosome formation is impaired .	implication

Recently, we showed that cell-permeable versions of the COOH termini of Rac1, RhoA, and Cdc42 act as selective inhibitors of the respective GTPases in a variety of cell types,	result
presumably by interfering with the proper targeting of these GTPases (van Hennik et al., 2003).	hypothesis
We noticed that the COOH terminus of Rac1,	result
which binds the SH3 domain of Crk (van Hennik et al., 2003),	fact
shows homology to a SH3 domain-binding motif in Pak1 and SPIN90.	implication
Interestingly, both Pak1 and SPIN90 interact with the SH3 domain of Rac1/Cdc42 GEF beta-Pix (Manser et al., 1998; Lim et al., 2003)	result
suggesting that Rac1 might also interact with beta-P	hypothesis
Streptavidin-based pull-down assays with a series of biotinylated RhoGTPase COOH-terminal peptides using lysates from human embryonal kidney 293 (HEK293) or MDCKII cells	method
confirmed that endogenous beta-Pix specifically binds the COOH terminus of Rac1 but not of Rac2, Cdc42, or RhoA (Fig. 1 A).	result
In contrast to beta-Pix, the Rac GEFs Tiam1 (Fig. 1 B) or Vav2 (not depicted) did not bind the COOH-terminal domain of Rac1.	result
These data show that the Rac1 COOH terminus binds specifically to beta-P	implication

The competitive binding of Rac1 and Pak1 to beta-Pix suggests that in the absence of Pak1, more beta-Pix-Rac1 complexes could be formed, resulting in higher levels of activated Rac1.	hypothesis
To test this,	goal
we used immortalized MEFs that were derived from Pak1-null (Pak1-/-) and WT (Pak+/+) mice and tested the Rac1 activity in these cells after seeding on fibronectin.	method
We found that there is clearly more activated Rac1 present in the Pak1-/- cells compared with the WT cells (Fig. 6 C).	result
The low but detectable levels of GTP-Cdc42 are similar in the Pak1-/- cells versus the WT cells (Fig. 6 C).	result
Subsequent pull-down assays with the COOH-terminal Rac1 peptide	method
showed that more beta-Pix associates to the Rac1 COOH terminus in the Pak1-/- cells compared with the WT cells (Fig. 6 D).	result
This indicates that in the absence of Pak1, there is more beta-Pix available for Rac1 binding, resulting in increased Rac1 activation.	implication

Many short-lived proteins have been found	implication
to be targeted and degraded by the proteasome after their ubiquitinylation ( 39 ) .	implication
Thus ,	goal
to validate this hypothesis we inhibited the activity of the proteasome with LLnL	goal
, a membrane-permeable inhibitor of cysteine proteases that acts upon calpains and proteasomes ( 42 , 46 ) .	fact
The action of LLnL on p42/p44 MAPK subcellular localization was assessed after long-term serum stimulation .	method

If MAPKK indeed takes MAPK out of the nucleus	hypothesis
, then nuclear export of MAPK should be accelerated by the presence of excess MAPKK in the nucleus .	hypothesis
To test this idea	goal
, we injected recombinant MAPK protein into the nuclei of 3Y1 cells together with or without recombinant MAPKK protein and then examined the subcellular distribution of injected MAPK protein 5 min after injection .	method
When injected alone	result
, MAPK stayed in the nucleus ( Fig . 4 , Control ) .	result
In contrast , coinjection of wild-type MAPKK significantly induced the nuclear export of MAPK ( Fig . 4 , His-WT MAPKK ) .	result
Importantly , NES-disrupted MAPKK did not induce the nuclear export of MAPK at all ( Fig . 4 , His-LA MAPKK ) .	result
These results clearly demonstrate	implication
that MAPKK is able to carry MAPK out of the nucleus by using the NES of MAPKK	implication

The experiments presented above led	hypothesis
us to propose that activation of the p42/p44 MAPK pathway triggers the neosynthesis of short-lived proteins that contribute to the nuclear accumulation of p42/p44 MAPK .	hypothesis
A prediction of this proposal is	hypothesis
that the stabilization of short-lived proteins should prolong the nuclear accumulation of p42/p44 MAPK .	hypothesis

Grb2 was also found to bind sequences	result
that deviate from the strict target sequence pY-X-N. Our experiments suggest the more generalized consensus motif pY- [ phiQ ] - [ NQFDK ] , where phi is a hydrophobic residue	result
Binding of Grb2 to motifs deviating from the pY-X-N sequence has previously been noted ( Songyang et al , 1994 ; Ward et al , 1996 ) .	result
To describe Grb2 binding preferences	goal
, we compared ion intensities in extracted ion chromatograms of identical tryptic peptides of Grb2 from pull-down experiments with different phosphotyrosine residues ( Figure 3 ) .	method
For the same mass spectrometric conditions , peptide ion signals from the same tryptic peptide in different experiments are indicative of the abundance of these peptides in different samples , a fact	method
that is , for example , used in Protein Correlation Profiling ( Andersen et al , 2003 )	method
Those bait peptides	method
containing an asparagine residue at position +2 led to identification of Grb2 peptides with high ion intensities	method
This correlates with the strong binding of Grb2 to the pY-X-N motif .	method
In contrast , bait peptides without asparagine at position +2 resulted in the identification of tryptic peptides with significantly lower ion intensities ( Figure 3 ) .	result
Nevertheless ,	result
in all cases , Grb2 was identified as a specific binding partner to the bait peptide	result
Furthermore , our findings are in agreement with in vitro studies of binding affinities of synthetic peptides to the recombinant SH2 domain of Grb2 ( Ward et al , 1996 ) .	implication

The ErbB family contains a total of 89 cytosolic tyrosine residues .	fact
In order to carry out a systematic analysis of binding partners to the corresponding phosphotyrosine motifs	goal
, the proteomic peptide-protein interaction screen had to be optimized and streamlined .	method
In the process of scaling up the method , desthiobiotin instead of biotin was used as the tagging reagent during peptide synthesis .	method
Desthiobiotinylated peptides were then immobilized on streptavidin-coated magnetic beads ( Dynabeads MyOne Streptavidin )	method
, and after incubation with cell lysate , bait peptides and proteins bound to them were eluted with biotin .	method
Bait peptides were removed from the reaction by precipitation of proteins .	method
As a consequence , eluted proteins did not have	method
to be separated over SDS-PAGE prior to analysis by mass spectrometry	method
This eliminated the time-consuming in-gel digestion step and reduced the number of LC-MS/MS experiments from at least six to one run per pull-down experiment .	method
Furthermore , in-solution digests are more readily automatable and can be performed at a scale of hundreds or thousands .	method
Thus , the improved method allows interaction profiling at a system-wide scale .	result

We next tested	hypothesis
whether Wnt5a could activate the STF reporter in 293Fz4 cells	hypothesis
Neither Wnt5a protein treatment at high doses nor transfection of Wnt5a DNA into cells expressing mFz4 could activate the STF reporter .	result
However , as	result
shown in Figure 4B , when LRP5 is coexpressed with mFz4	result
Thus , Wnt5a can activate TCF/beta-catenin signaling given the expression of the appropriate receptors .	implication
Interestingly , Wnt5a is unable	result
to activate the STF reporter in 293Fz4 cells transiently transfected with LRP6 , indicating the specificity of the Wnt5a/Fz4/LRP5 signaling complex ( unpublished data )	result

We next examined the molecular mechanism by	method
which PI3K/Akt influences F. novicida-induced cytokine response .	method
It has been previously reported	result
that F. novicida induces the activation of NFkappaB , and that activation of this transcription factor may play an important role in the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines .	none
Hence we wanted	hypothesis
to test the involvement of NFkappaB in the secretion of IL-12 , IL-6 , and RANTES in response to F. novicida infection , and the influence of PI3K on NFkappaB activation .	hypothesis
For this , we first transiently transfected RAW 264.7 cells with a construct encoding luciferase reporter gene under the influence of NFkappaB binding ( NFkappaB-luciferase construct ) .	method
Twelve hours post transfection , cells were infected with F. novicida for the times indicated in Figure 6A	method
, and luciferase activity in the cell lysate was determined .	method
Results indicated	result
that NFkappaB activation is induced in response to F. novicida infection .	result

Although we show that Wnt5a protein can inhibit canonical Wnt signaling , the question remains of	result
whether Wnt5a can activate Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in mammalian systems	problem
Multiple Fz receptors , including mFz4 , mFz6 , mFz7 , and mFz8 , were assayed for their ability	method
to transduce Wnt5a-mediated canonical Wnt signaling ( unpublished data )	method
We found that Wnt5a could indeed activate Wnt/beta-catenin signaling when cells overexpressed mFz4	result
; none of the other overexpressed receptors could transduce the Wnt5a signal .	result
Western blot analysis of cytosolic extracts probed for beta-catenin ( Figure 4A ) shows	result
that while Wnt5a has no effect on cytosolic beta-catenin levels in the parental 293 cell line , Wnt5a can induce modest beta-catenin accumulation in cells stably expressing a FLAG-tagged mFz4 construct ( 293Fz4 )	result
These results are in accordance with observations by Umbhauer et al .	result
that coinjection of Xwnt5a RNA with Xfz4 RNA leads to the synergistic activation of Wnt/beta-catenin target genes in Xenopus animal caps	result

The nature of the association of TRF2 with ATM was explored further	goal
using in vitro pulldown experiments .	method
GST-tagged fragments of ATM were tested for their ability to bind purified TRF2 protein expressed in a baculovirus system .	method
In parallel , we used baculovirus-derived TRF1 ,	method
which was previously shown to interact with ATM by co-IP ( Kishi et al . 2001 ) .	method
TRF2 bound to two overlapping fragments of ATM spanning amino acids 1439 to 2138 ( Figure 4B ) .	result
This region contains the FAT domain and S1981 , the critical target of autophosphorylation ( Bakkenist and Kastan 2003 ) .	fact
TRF1 bound a different region of ATM ( Figure 4B ) ,	result
demonstrating the specificity of the observed interactions .	result

To investigate the in vivo function of Peli1 in regulating TLR signaling	goal
, we employed a septic shock model involving intra-peritoneal ( i.p . )	method
injection of the TLR4 ligand LPS plus a liver-specific transcription inhibitor , D-galactosamine ,	method
which enhances the toxicity of LPS 24	method
In this acute inflammation model , lethality occurs within hours and is largely dependent on the production of the proinflammatory cytokine TNF 25 , 26 .	result
As expected	result
, injection of LPS and D-galacosamine caused lethality in the majority of Peli1+/+ mice within 9 hours and killed all of them within 18 hours ( Fig . 1a ) .	result
In sharp contrast , none of the Peli1-/- mice succumbed to the septic shock induction during the entire 24 hour time period ( Fig . 1a ) .	result
We also employed a septic shock model involving injection of high-doses of LPS in the absence of D-galactosamine .	method
As expected , a much higher dose of LPS ( 45 mg/kg body weight ) and a considerably longer time ( 24 hours ) were required	result
to induce a moderate frequency ( 2 out of 6 ) of lethality in wild-type mice ( Supplementary Fig . 3 )	result
At this time , none of the Peli1-/- mice succumbed .	result
After longer times , 1 of the 6 Peli1-/- mice died , compared to 50 % of the Peli1+/+ mice ( Supplementary Fig . 3 ) .	result
Thus ,	none
although less striking than the acute lethality model	none

We next examined the relationship between Rag and TORC1 pathway components in further detail .	method
In mammalian cells , rapamycin treatment completely blocked RagA Q66L/RagC S75N induced S6K phosphorylation ( Fig . 5a ) .	result
Consistent with this , co-expression of an mTOR kinase dead mutant ( mTOR-KD ) also effectively inhibited RagA Q66L/RagC S75N induced S6K phosphorylation .	result
These results show that Rag functions upstream of mTOR .	implication
On the other hand , expression of TSC1/TSC2 partially inhibited the stimulatory effect of RagA Q66L/RagC S75N ( Fig . 5b ) .	result
Conversely , expression of RagA Q66L/RagC S75N partially reversed the inhibitory effect of TSC1/TSC2 .	result
To further investigate the relationship between Rag and TSC	goal
, we examined the endogenous proteins .	method
Both RagA and RagB genes are expressed in HeLa cells ( data not shown ) .	result
Knockdown of both RagA and RagB decreased S6K phosphorylation and also compromised the increase of S6K phosphorylation caused by TSC2 knockdown ( Fig . 5c ) .	result
These results indicate	implication
that Rag and TSC1/2 may function in parallel pathways to independently regulate mTORC1 activity	implication

In vitro kinase assays performed on GEMs immunoprecipitated by , for example , CD59 mAb from leukocytes typically produce two major species of phosphorylated proteins : one with a molecular mass of 55-60 kD ( previously identified as Src family kinases ) and the other , as yet unidentified , with a molecular mass of ~80 kD ( Fig . 1 A ) .	result
Moreover , an acidic 85-kD phosphoprotein is a component of the recently described Fyn complex 33 and can be visualized after two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of an in vitro-labeled Fyn immunoprecipitate prepared from resting human T cells ( Fig . 1 B ) .	result
Finally , a constitutive tyrosine-phosphorylated 70-80-kD protein is expressed in peripheral blood leukocytes and lymphoid cell lines and associates with GEMs ,	result
as defined by flotation in density gradients ( Fig . 1 C ) .	result
We suspected	hypothesis
that these 80-85-kD GEM- and Fyn-associated phosphoproteins as well as the prominent pp70-80 found in leukocytes might represent the same molecule , and thus attempted its characterization .	hypothesis

APG5-/- cells were found	result
to grow at the same rate as wild-type cells and form colonies with normal morphology ( data not shown ) .	result
Since three APG5-/- clones ( A11 , B19 , and B22 ) showed similar phenotypes	result
, we used A11 for further studies unless otherwise indicated .	method

Differential binding affinities of the CH2 domain to the N- and C-SH3 domains of grb2	result
suggest that p66shc may promote but not be solely responsible for the dissociation of sos1 from grb2.	hypothesis
Both the N- and C-SH3 domains of grb2 interact with sos1 (Yang et al., 1995).	result
Therefore, binding of the CH2 domain to the C-SH3 domain of grb2 would be expected to weaken but not entirely abrogate the sos1-grb2 interaction.	hypothesis
interaction. It is noteworthy that our analysis of the CH2-grb2 interaction was conducted in recombinantly expressed proteins that are not posttranslationally modified.	method
It is therefore reasonable to hypothesize that posttranslational modifications of the CH2 domain and/or grb2 may also play an important part in further modulating their interaction.	hypothesis
Furthermore, the CH2 domain that was mutated at prolines 47 and 50 did retain some ability to bind to grb2 in vitro,	result
suggesting that other residues may also be important for its interaction with grb2.	implication

Since activation of Src family kinases is linked to angiogenesis [16], [1	fact
we initially analyzed the ability E1052/CKR and E1057/	goal
CKR to stimulate endothelial tubulogenesis in vitro.	goal
Our analysis showed that mutation of Y1052 had no apparent effect on the ability of CKR to promote tube formation of PAE cells.	result
However, mutation of Y1057 significantly reduced the ability of CKR to stimulate tube formation of PAE cells (Figure 4A).	result
Quantification of tube formation of PAE cells in response to CKR, E1052/CKR and E1057/CKR activation is shown (Figure 4B).	result
To test whether c-Src activation is required for tube formation of PAE cells,	goal
we used previously established PAE cells co-expressing CKR with either wild type c-Src or dominantly negative acting kinase inactive Src [15].	method
The result showed that over-expression of c-Src or dominant negative c-Src in PAE cells do not alter the ability of VEGFR-2 to stimulate tube formation (Figure 4C, 4D),	result
indicating that perhaps c-Src activity is not required for VEGFR-2 to stimulate tube formation of endothelial cells.	implication
In contrast, our analysis showed that over-expression of c-Src significantly enhances the ability of VEGFR-2 to stimulate proliferation of PAE cells and over-expression of dominant negative Src (Src kinase-dead) inhibits the VEGFR-2 driven proliferation of PAE cells (Figure 4E).	result
To test the role of c-Src in endothelial cell proliferation further	goal
we knocked down c-Src expression in HUVE and HMVE cells by siRNA strategy and tested their VEGF-dependent proliferation.	method
The result showed that silencing the expression of c-Src in endothelial cells significantly inhibits the ability of VEGFR-2 to stimulate proliferation of these primary endothelial cells (Figure 4F, 4G).	result
Interestingly, HMVE cells were more sensitive to silencing of c-Src than HUVE cells	implication
since silencing of Src expression almost totally inhibited VEGF	result
stimulated proliferation (Figure 4G).	result
Taken together, our results identify c-Src as a key component of mitogenic signaling of VEGFR-2 in endothelial cells.	implication

In the absence of amino acids , the ability of insulin	none
to stimulate S6K	none
S3 ) 8 , 19 .	none
We therefore examined the effect of Rag on insulin signaling .	method
Co-expression of RagA T21N and RagC Q120L potently diminished the ability of insulin	result
to stimulate S6K phosphorylation	result
S3 ) .	result
In contrast , the insulin-induced AKT phosphorylation was not affected by Rag ( Fig . 3c ) .	result
These data further support the notion	implication
that the Rag GTPases may be specifically involved in amino acid signaling	implication
Rag	none

With the combination of EFs and agonistic anti-LTbetaR mAb , signals for NF-kappaB activation assessed by EMSA were not strong enough	result
to evaluate the role of NIK in NF-kappaB activation through the LTbetaR ( our unpublished observation )	result
Involvement of NIK in LTbetaR signaling was therefore examined by detection of IkappaBalpha phosphorylation in response to agonistic anti-LTbetaR mAb .	method
In wild-type EFs stimulated with agonistic anti-LTbetaR mAb for 1 h , IkappaBalpha phosphorylation was easily detected by Western blot analysis ( Fig . 2 B ) .	method
In contrast , aly mouse	result
EFs showed minimal	result
Taken together , these results demonstrate	implication
that NIK is essential for NF-kappaB activation in LTbetaR signaling , which accounts for the abnormal lymphoid organogenesis in aly mice	implication

Unexpectedly , neither PDGF nor insulin could substitute for serum in the induction of membrane ruffling ( data not shown ) .	result
Both growth factors induce lamellipodia formation in NIH3T3 cells within 5 min ,	result
which can easily be discriminated from the Tiam1-induced ruffling	result
This might indicate	implication
that Tiam1 is not activated by PDGF or insulin	implication

Also , to follow our results showing that p130CAS is constitutively hyperphosphorylated in PTP-PEST ( -/- ) cells ( Cote et al. , 1998 ) , we verified	fact
if this hyperphosphorylation was decreased in the clone overexpressing wild-type PTP-PEST used in Fig . 2 e. p130CAS was immunoprecipitated from lysates of PTP-PEST ( +/- ) , ( -/- ) , and ( -/- ) overpressing PTP-PEST	result
The phosphorylation levels of p130CAS in each cell line were then evaluated as for the focal adhesion proteins described above .	method
Fig . 4 b shows	result
that the phosphorylation of p130CAS is decreased to normal levels in the PTP-PEST ( -/- ) cells overexpressing PTP-PEST	result
Taken together , these data suggest	implication
that PTP-PEST mediates the dephosphorylation of a specific subset of focal adhesion-associated proteins	implication

The results show	implication
that there are clear binding partners for each of the singly phosphorylated bait peptides of the Y-E-Y motifs ( Figure 4 )	implication
All three Y-E-Y motifs contain a binding site for PI3K at the first tyrosine residue ( Y1197 , Y1222 and Y1260 ; pY-E-Y )	result
, and two motifs contain a binding site for Grb2 at the second tyrosine residue ( Y1199 and Y1268 ; Y-E-pY ) .	result
The Y-E-Y motif with phosphorylated tyrosine residue Y1224 ( Y-E-pY ) did not result in specific binding of any protein .	result
PI3K , as well as Grb2 , also interacted with the doubly phosphorylated bait peptides .	result
However , Grb2 interaction was weaker with the doubly phosphorylated bait peptides , compared to the interaction with the singly phosphorylated peptide , including the Grb2 binding site .	result
Apparently , the doubly phosphorylated regions did not have characteristic specific interaction partners .	implication
Since both tyrosine residues are very close together , only one of the two possible interaction partners can bind at a time , and	implication
it remains open if the doubly phosphorylated form actually occurs in vivo	problem

To examine the localization of Apg5 in more detail	goal
, we carried out immunoelectron microscopy using an anti-GFP antibody .	method
Under nonstarvation conditions , silver-enhanced gold particles showed mostly cytoplasmic distribution ( data not shown ) .	result
In cells subjected to a 2-h starvation period , gold particles were found	result
extensively associated with isolation membranes ( Fig . 6A , Fig .	result
Their distribution was asymmetric ;	result
most of the gold particles were found on the outer side of isolation membranes , with a few on the inner membrane .	result
In contrast to the isolation membrane , almost no GFP-Apg5 signal was detected on the autophagosome and autolysosome membranes ( Fig . 6 , A-C , I , and J ) .	result
Apg5 associated with an isolation membrane that was close to completing circularization ( Fig . 6 H ) ,	result
suggesting that Apg12-Apg5 detaches from the membrane immediately before or after autophagosome formation is completed .	implication

As shown in Fig . 3 B , the C1199 Tiam1 protein carrying a small internal deletion in the conserved COOH-terminal part of the DH-adjacent PH domain ( C1199-DeltaPHc ) was still able	result
to induce membrane ruffling	result
This was an unexpected finding	implication
since deletions in the DH-adjacent PH domain of other GDS proteins interfered with their proper functioning ( Hart et al. , 1994 ; Whitehead et al. , 1995b ) , and mutations in this region of the PH domain of beta-Ark abolished interactions with both Gbetagamma proteins and phospholipids ( Touhara et al. , 1995 )	fact
In contrast , a C1199 Tiam1 protein with a deletion in the DH domain ( C1199DeltaDH ) did not induce membrane ruffling ( Fig . 3 C ) , corroborating a previously proposed catalytic function for the DH domain ( Hart et al. , 1994 ) .	result
Deletion of most of the DHR region ( C1199-DeltaDHR ) did not affect ruffling ( Fig . 3 D ) , indicating	result
that the DHR domain is not required for the induction of membrane ruffles	implication
However , a small deletion in the NH2-terminal PH domain ( C1199-DeltaPHn ) , comparable to the deletion made in the COOH-terminal PH domain , completely abolished membrane ruffling ( Fig . 3 E ) .	result
Western blot analyses showed	result
that all mutant proteins were of the predicted size and expressed at similar levels ( see Fig . 4 , lanes 4-9 ) , although somewhat less than the C1199 Tiam1 protein	result
This excludes the possibility	implication
that these results were due to major differences in protein stability	implication
We conclude	implication
that both the catalytic DH domain and the NH2-terminal PH domain are essential for Tiam1-induced membrane ruffling	implication

Besides Fyn , the only other candidate molecule reproducibly found to associate with PAG in a variety of cells ( resting T cells , Raji , and Jurkat cells ) was the PTK Csk ( Fig . 7 C ) .	result
Analysis of PAG immunoprecipitates prepared from transfected COS cells indicated	method
that the interaction between PAG and Csk requires tyrosine phosphorylation of PAG by Src kinases ( Fig . 7 D ) .	result
Moreover , PP1-mediated dephosphorylation of PAG in peripheral blood T cells resulted in a significant loss of the PAG-associated Csk ( Fig . 7 B ) .	result
Finally , expression of PAG molecules in which the ten cytoplasmic tyrosine residues were individually mutated to phenylalanine further revealed	result
that the association between PAG and Csk is to a large extent mediated via the tyrosine residue Y317 ( Fig . 7 E ) .	result
In contrast , under the same experimental conditions , Fyn bound to all of the PAG tyrosine mutants investigated .	result
This further confirms	implication
that the PAG-Fyn interaction is probably phosphotyrosine independent .	implication
Taken together , these data indicate	implication
that after phosphorylation by Src family PTKs , PAG recruits Csk to the plasma membrane via a mechanism involving Y317 and independent from an association between PAG and Fyn .	implication

The stimulatory effect of constitutively active RagA on S6K phosphorylation was not dramatic in normal culture medium ( Fig . 2 ) .	result
Previously , we had also observed	result
that stimulation of S6K phosphorylation by Rheb was not dramatic in rich medium	result
Therefore , we tested S6K phosphorylation under amino acid deprivation .	method
Co-expression of constitutively active RagA Q66L increased S6K phosphorylation	result
while wild type RagA or dominant negative RagA T21N did not	result
Moreover , expression of RagA T21N and RagC Q120L completely blocked S6K phosphorylation in response to amino acid stimulation ( Fig . 3b ) .	result
Surprisingly , expression of dominant negative RagC S75N but not constitutively active RagC Q120L reproducibly increased S6K phosphorylation ( Fig . 3a ) .	result
Although the effect was less dramatic , given the low expression of RagC S75N	result
, the S6K activation caused by RagC S75N was in fact rather significant .	result
Transfection with as little as 20ng of RagA Q66L DNA strongly increased S6K phosphorylation in the absence of amino acids and this effect lasted over 12hrs ( Fig .	result
S2a , data not shown ) .	result
Expression of RagA T21N strongly blocked amino acid stimulation	result
even though the expression level was low ( Fig	result
S2a ) .	result

Fig . 7 recapitulates a typical immunolocalization of p42/ p44 MAPK .	result
Mainly cytoplasmic in G0-arrested cells ( Fig . 7 A ) , MAPKs display a clear nuclear localization after 3 h of stimulation with 10 % FCS ( Fig . 7 B ) and return almost completely in the cytoplasm after 12 h	result
when cells are beginning to enter S-phase ( Fig . 7 C ) .	result
In a parallel set of stimulated cells , addition of the proteasome inhibitor LLnL ( 30 muM ) , for 12 h , markedly prevented nuclear MAPK efflux ( Fig . 7 , compare D with C ) .	result
In addition ,	method
if mitogenic stimulation was ended upon serum removal after 3 h and the cells were incubated for another 9 h in a serum-free medium containing the LLnL	method
, the nuclear localization of p42/p44 MAPK was maintained ( Fig . 7 H ) .	result
We have previously shown	result
that p42/p44 MAPK activity in exponentially growing cells is completely abolished after a 3-h serum removal ( our unpublished results ) .	result
Our results indicate	implication
that p42/p44 MAPK nuclear retention can be observed while MAPK activation is totally abrogated , provided that the targeted degradation of proteins is halted .	implication
Furthermore , we have previously shown	implication
that activation of CCL39 cells by nonmitogenic stimuli was not sufficient to promote nuclear accumulation of p42/p44 MAPK ( 27 ) .	implication
For example , TPA ,	result
which is not mitogenic for CCL39 cells	fact
, does not induce any redistribution of MAPKs in the nucleus ( Fig . 7 F ) .	result
Surprisingly ,	result
blocking protein degradation by addition of LLnL during TPA stimulation for 12 h	result
, triggered the nuclear accumulation of p42/p44 MAPK ( Fig . 7 , compare G and F ) .	result
Interestingly , the nuclear accumulation of p42/p44 MAPK observed	result
when cells were exposed to both TPA and LLnL was delayed as compared with that obtained with mitogenic stimulation ( starting at ~6 h , data not shown ) .	result
For all the experiments presented here , it is important	result
to note that LLnL alone is not able to stimulate p42/p44 MAPK activity nor alter the magnitude and temporal profile of stimulated MAPKs by serum ( Fig . 5 A , lanes 6 , 9 , and 12 and Fig . 5 B , lanes 3 , 7 , and 11 ) or upon addition of TPA ( Fig . 5 B , lanes 5 , 9 , and 12 ) .	result
Thus , any action of LLnL on the subcellular localization of p42/p44 MAPK can not be attributed to the modification of MAPK activity .	implication
Furthermore , treatment with LLnL alone does not change the cytoplasmic localization of MAPKs in resting cells ( Fig . 7 E ) .	result
To verify that LLnL does not alter the general mechanism of nuclear import/export	goal
, treatment with LLnL for 12 h in presence of serum does not modify the subcellular localization of MEK or of the transcription factor SP1 ( data not shown ) .	result

Fig . 3 depicts a typical time course of p42/p44 MAPK subcellular localization after stimulation of resting CCL39-DeltaRaf-1 : ER cells by either serum of beta-estradiol .	result
First , as illustrated in Fig . 3 , A and E , the observed staining for p42/ p44 MAPK shows	result
that in G0-arrested cells , p42/p44 MAPK immunolabeling was predominantly cytoplasmic , in accordance with our and other previously published results ( 8 , 18 , 27 ) .	result
Second , as judged by immunofluorescence microscopy , p42/p44 MAPK immunostaining underwent a complete redistribution in serum-stimulated cells ,	result
becoming almost exclusively nuclear after 3 h stimulation ( Fig . 3 B ) .	result
After 6 h of serum stimulation , p42/p44 MAPK immunostaining is uniformly distributed throughout the whole cell ( Fig . 3 C ) .	result
Finally , after 9 h of serum stimulation , p42/ p44 MAPK immunostaining was again predominantly cytoplasmic ( Fig . 3 D ) .	result
Interestingly , a 3-h stimulation of the DeltaRaf-1 : ER chimera by beta-estradiol was sufficient	result
to induce by itself the nuclear localization of p42/p44 MAPK ( Fig . 3 F ) .	result
In contrast to serum stimulation , activation of the DeltaRaf-1 : ER chimera prolonged the nuclear localization of p42/p44 MAPK for up to 6 h ( Fig . 3 G ) and 9 h ( Fig . 3 H ) after stimulation by beta-estradiol .	result
Furthermore , p42/p44 MAPK	result
nuclear immunostaining was even detected after 15 h of DeltaRaf-1 : ER stimulation ( data not shown ) .	result
Later immunohistochemical observations were rendered more difficult	result
because cells underwent rounding and detachment by the prolonged activation of this signaling cascade ( 35 and data not shown ) .	result
As seen in response to serum , MAPK nuclear translocation initiated by activation of the DeltaRaf-1	result
: ER chimera was also abrogated in presence of the MEK inhibitor ( Fig . 1 , compare E and F ) .	result

To assess the levels of accumulated beta-catenin protein	goal
, we prepared cytosolic extracts from 293 cells treated for 3 h with Wnt3a protein , Wnt5a protein , or both .	method
Cellular fractionation is necessary	hypothesis
to ensure that only cytosolic beta-catenin protein stabilized due to active Wnt signaling is observed as opposed to the relatively stable membrane-associated pool of beta-catenin protein	hypothesis
Although a particularly low dose of Wnt3a protein ( 10 ng/ml ) was used in this analysis to ensure that subtle differences in beta-catenin protein levels could be discerned	method
, no appreciable reduction in beta-catenin accumulation was observed ( Figure 2A ) , even when concentrations of Wnt5a protein ( 200 ng/ml ) sufficient to inhibit the STF reporter 5-fold were used .	result
These data show	implication
that the Wnt3a signal is initiated in the presence of Wnt5a protein , indicating that Wnt5a does not efficiently compete with Wnt3a for receptor binding sites	implication

Finally , inhibition of NFkappaB , using the pharmacologic inhibitor SN50 , in murine BMMs infected with F. novicida resulted in significant inhibition of IL-12 ( p < 0.009 ) , IL-6 ( p < 0.007 ) , and RANTES ( p < 0.02 ) production ( Figure 6C ) .	result
The Western blots shown in Figure 6D demonstrate	result
that although treatment of cells with the PI3K inhibitor completely abrogated downstream Akt phosphorylation , Akt phosphorylation was not influenced by the NFkappaB inhibitor SN50 , indicating that SN50 inhibition has occurred downstream of Akt .	result
Collectively , these data provide evidence	implication
that PI3K influences F. novicida-induced macrophage pro-inflammatory response through its influence on NFkappaB activation .	implication
Of note , the activation of NFkappaB is unaffected in macrophages pre-treated with cytochalasin D ,	implication
suggesting that internalization of F. novicida is not required ( Figure 6E ) .	implication

The competition between E3b1 and Grb2 for the same binding site on Sos-1	result
implies that an individual Sos-1 molecule can only be part of one GEF complex at a time.	implication
However, different pools of Sos-1, either bound to Grb2 or to E3b1, could exist in vivo.	hypothesis
We tried to gain insight into this issue.	goal
showed that BIAcore measurements revealed similar kinetic parameters for the SH3-mediated S/G and S/E interactions (Fig. 2 D).	result
However, when we measured the relative abundance of S/G and S/E complexes within the cell,	method
we found a 10-fold excess of the former (Fig. 5 A),	result
under conditions in which quantitative immunoprecipitation of the adaptor molecules, Grb2 and E3b1, was achieved (Fig. 5 A).	method
Thus, the data indicate that two pools of Sos-1, associated with different adaptors, exist simultaneously in the cell.	implication
They further suggest that the pool of E3b1, available for binding to Sos-1, is reduced relative to that of Grb2, and may be rate-limiting.	hypothesis
Indeed, overexpression of E3b1 resulted in increased PAK65 activity,	result
an indicator of Rac activation (Manser et al., 1994)	fact
(Fig. 5 B), which was abrogated by a dominant negative Rac mutant (Fig. 5 B).	result
On the other hand, overexpression of Sos-1	method
did not lead to increased PAK65 activity.	result
An additional corollary of this hypothesis is that the overexpression of E3b1, by facilitating the formation of a trimeric complex with Eps8 and Sos-1, should directly lead to activation of Rac.	hypothesis
To test this prediction	goal
E3b1 or a mutant of E3b1 (E3b1-DY), bearing alanine substitutions of the DY residues critical for the interaction with Eps8 (Mongiovi et al., 1999), were used to infect wild-type and eps8-/- fibroblast	method
The levels of GTP-bound Rac were then determined by in vitro binding assays using the immobilized CRIB domain of PAK65 (Manser et al., 1994). E3b1, but not the E3b1 mutant impaired in Eps8 binding,	method
caused a readily detectable increase in Rac-GTP levels in wild type, but not in eps8-/- fibroblasts (Fig. 5 C).	result
Thus, the overexpression of E3b1 is sufficient to activate Rac and this effect is strictly dependent on Eps8.	implication

Vinculin is a structural protein	fact
that links talin and actin when focal adhesions form	fact
It can be tyrosine phosphorylated , but	fact
this phosphorylation does not seem to be implicated in focal adhesion formation , the latter due to a conformational change in vinculin following phosphatidyl inositol biphosphate binding ( Burridge and Chrzanowska-Wodnicka , 1996 )	fact
There was no detectable basal level of tyrosine phosphorylation of vinculin in both cell lines , potentially due to the fact	result
that the cells were not stimulated	result

To correlate our findings with in vivo phosphorylation of the receptor	goal
, we directly analyzed the kinetics of phosphorylation of several sites upon EGF stimulation by mass spectrometry .	method
Phosphopeptides of immunoprecipitated EGFR were analyzed by LC-MS/MS after different times of stimulation with EGF .	method
For these experiments , different cell populations were completely SILAC labeled with either Arg0 , Arg6 or Arg10 .	method
Arg0 populations were left unstimulated ,	method
Arg6 populations were stimulated for either 2 or 4 min	method
Ratios between tryptic phosphopeptides in their Arg0 , Arg6 and Arg10 forms in the combined immunoprecipitations allowed one	method
to monitor the abundance of these tryptic phosphopeptides as a function of time after EGF stimulation ( Blagoev et al , 2004 )	method
In this experiment , we identified a novel EGFR phosphorylation site by the tryptic peptide containing the phosphorylated tyrosine residue Y998 ( Figure 6A ) .	result
In total , tryptic peptides to six phosphorylation sites were analyzed ( Figure 6B ) .	method
Peptides of phosphorylated Y1110 , Y1172 and Y1197 showed highest ratios at 2-4 min of stimulation	result
, and these ratios decreased with longer EGF stimulation .	result
In contrast , Src-kinase phosphorylation site Y869 displayed a decrease in ratio at 4 min of stimulation ,	result
which was accompanied by an increase in ratio of the nonphosphorylated tryptic peptide	result
The novel phosphorylation site at Y998 displayed a gradual increase in ratio over 15 min of stimulation , and	result
the phosphorylation site at Y801 was maximally activated as late as 8 min after start of EGF stimulation ( Figure 6B )	result
However , in interpreting the kinetics of such curves , it has	implication
to be kept in mind that the amount of EGFR immunoprecipitated by the phosphotyrosine antibody will depend on the total tyrosine phosphorylation of the receptor in addition to the phosphorylation of the site under investigation	implication

We were intrigued by the possibility that the same features of the CH2 domain that confer upon p66shc its ability to govern rac1 activity may also determine its ability to regulate oxidative stress.	hypothesis
We therefore assessed the importance of the CH2 domain and prolines 47 and 50 in this domain to p66shc-induced intracellular ROS generation.	goal
Expression of p66shcWT in p66shc -/- MEF resulted in a significant increase in H2O2, whereas expression of p66shcP47A/P50A or -CH2 had no appreciable effect (Fig. 3 A).	result
Comparison of H2O2 levels between p66shc +/+ and -/- MEF showed significantly lower levels in the latter, which could be rescued by expression of p66shcWT (Fig. 3 B).	result
In addition, expression of dominant-inhibitory rac1 (rac1N17) suppressed H2O2 levels to a considerably larger degree in p66shc +/+ MEF than in p66shc -/- cells (Fig. 3 C) and abrogated p66shc-induced rescue of H2O2 levels in p66shc -/- MEF (Fig. 3 D).	result
Collectively, these findings suggest that rac1-dependent mechanisms play a larger role in regulating H2O2 production in p66shc +/+ than in -/- MEF and that p66shc-mediated rescue of H2O2 levels in p66shc -/- cells is dependent on endogenous rac1 activity.	implication

To determine the functional effects of VEGF-stimulated AMPK activity	goal
, we investigated the role of AMPK in VEGF-stimulated eNOS phosphorylation and NO production .	method
Previous studies have proposed that VEGF-stimulated eNOS phosphorylation at Ser1177 is mediated by PKB [ 5,6 ] , yet complete inhibition of PKB with the PI3K inhibitor	result
, wortmannin only partially inhibited VEGF-stimulated NO production [ 3,5,7 ] .	result
In agreement with this , preincubation of HAECs with the PI3K inhibitor wortmannin incompletely but significantly reduced VEGF-stimulated NO production by ~65 % ( Fig . 3 ) at a concentration	result
that completely inhibited phosphorylation of PKB at Ser473 ( data not shown ) .	result
These data suggest	implication
that both PI3K/PKB and a PI3K-independent kinase mediate VEGF-stimulated NO production .	implication
Infection of HAECs with Ad.alpha1DN caused a significant ( ~40 % ) reduction in VEGF-stimulated NO production ( Fig . 3 ) .	result
In the presence of wortmannin , infection with Ad.alpha1DN significantly reduced VEGF-stimulated NO production to basal levels .	result
Quantification of eNOS phosphorylation status in Ad.alpha1DN-infected cells revealed	result
VEGF-stimulated phosphorylation at Ser1177 was significantly reduced by approximately 70 % ( Fig . 4 ) .	result

To understand where the tyrosine residues hyperphosphorylated on p130CAS , paxillin , and FAK in the PTP-PEST ( -/- ) cells are , and to verify if these sites could be specific SH2-binding motifs	goal
, we examined the physical association of each of these proteins with a panel of SH2 domains in vitro .	method
The three constructs tested were the GST fusion proteins of the Src and Crk SH2 domains , as well as the full-length Grb2 ( Charest et al. , 1997 ) .	method
These three SH2 domains were shown to bind phosphotyrosines on FAK ( Cantley and Songyang , 1994 ; Schaller et al. , 1994 ; Schlaepfer et al. , 1994 ; Schlaepfer and Hunter , 1996 ) , Src and Crk to p130CAS ( Sakai et al. , 1994 ) , and Crk to paxillin ( Turner and Miller , 1994 ) .	result

The systematic profiling of interaction partners not only allows a global view of interaction sites , but also reveals important detailed information	method
that can be exploited further for the understanding of signaling processes , as will be illustrated with the example of STAT5 binding to EGFR	method
STAT5 is a transcription factor	fact
that is rapidly activated upon EGF stimulation	fact
It then moves to the nucleus ,	fact
where it is involved in the regulation of gene transcription	fact
Experiments with truncated EGFR clones suggested	implication
that the region between tyrosine residue Y0978 and Y0998 was necessary for activation of STAT5 ( Xia et al , 2002 )	implication
However , it remained unclear	hypothesis
whether this proposed interaction was direct or through a multiprotein complex	hypothesis
Systematic interaction profiling of all tyrosine residues of the ErbB-receptor family revealed	result
STAT5 as a specific interaction partner to the phosphorylated bait peptides Y978 and Y998 of the EGF receptor and Y984 of ErbB4	result
We confirmed the direct interaction of STAT5 and EGFR by immunoprecipitation .	result
When EGFR was immunoprecipitated from whole-cell lysates of cells under normal growth conditions ( basal stimulation in 10 % FBS )	method
, STAT5 was identified by Western blot and vice versa ( Figure 5 ) .	method
To further confirm this finding , we added synthetic phosphorylated peptides pY978 and pY998 to the immunoprecipitation reaction ,	goal
which resulted in reduced STAT5 detection after EGFR immunoprecipitation	result
The unphosphorylated counterparts of these peptides had no influence on the immunoprecipitation reactions ( Figure 5A ) .	result
Figure 5B shows	result
that the interaction of STAT5 depended on EGFR phosphorylation , which peaked after two minutes of EGF stimulation , and that normal growing HeLa cells also have a basal level of phosphorylated EGFR	result

The existence of Sos-1 in two physically and functionally distinct pools	fact
suggests the hypothesis that its presence in a S/G or a S/E/E8 complex could dictate its Ras- or Rac-specific GEF activities, respectively.	hypothesis
To explore this possibility,	goal
we used an in vitro assay that can score GEF activities in Sos-1-containing immunoprecipitates.	method
Cells were transfected with	method
either Sos-1 alone (SosTfx) or a combination of S/E/E8 (Triple Tfx) (Fig. 7 A).	method
When Sos-1 was immunoprecipitated from SosTfx, it displayed Ras-GEF, but not Rac-GEF, activity (Fig. 7 B).	result
Of note, little E3b1 and no Eps8 could be detected in Sos-1 immunoprecipitates (Fig. 7 A).	result
Conversely, Grb2 was readily recovered from the same immunoprecipitates (unpublished data).	result
We then used the Triple Tfx and coimmunoprecipitated Sos-1 with anti-Eps8 antibodies (Fig. 7, A and B).	method
Under these conditions, all of the coimmunoprecipitated Sos-1 is present in the S/E/E8 tricomplex (Scita et al., 1999).	fact
Despite lower levels of Sos-1 in the coimmunoprecipitate (with respect to a Sos-1 immunoprecipitate from SosTfx), Rac-GEF activity was now present (Fig. 7 B).	result
Conversely, no Ras-GEF activity could be detected (Fig. 7 B).	result
The lack of Ras-GEF activity was not due to the low levels of Sos-1.	hypothesis
To prove this point,	goal
we immunoprecipitated from SosTfx an amount of Sos-1	method
comparable to that present in anti-Eps8 immunoprecipitates from Triple Tfx (Fig. 7, A and B, lanes SosTfx1/10).	method
Under these conditions, Ras-GEF activity was readily detectable (Fig. 7 B).	result
The detection of Rac-specific GEF activity in anti-Eps8 immunoprecipitates strictly required the presence of Sos-1,	implication
since no GEF activity was detected in Eps8 immunoprecipitates, in the absence of coexpressed Sos-1 (Scita et al., 1999; unpublished data).	result
Furthermore, no Rac-GEF activity could be detected in Eps8 immunoprecipitates from lysates of cells transfected with Sos-1, E3b1, and an Eps8 mutant	result
that is impaired in its ability to bind E3b1 and thereby cannot form a trimeric complex (Scita et al., 1999).	fact

To further examine the role of Rag GTPases in mTORC1 regulation	goal
, we determined the phosphorylation status of the S6K site T421/S424 , which is not directly phosphorylated by mTORC1 , and 4EBP1 , another direct substrate of mTORC1 .	method
RagA T21N did not decrease	result
S6K T421/S424 phosphorylation as much as T389	result
In contrast , RagAT21N completely blocked 4EBP1 phosphorylation ( S65 ) and also caused a dramatic mobility shift of the co-transfected 4EBP1 ( Fig . 2c ) .	result
On the other hand ,	result
Rag had little effect on AKT ( S473 ) phosphorylation	result
These results support the notion	implication
that Rag GTPases specifically activate mTORC1 but not mTORC2	implication
Rag	none

We then generated several stable transformants by	method
transfecting A11 cells with Apg5 cDNAs ( Fig . 1 D ) .	method
In two transformants with wild-type Apg5 cDNA ( WT1 and WT13 ) , exogenous Apg5 ,	result
of which expression was a little weaker than in wild-type cells	result
, was conjugated with Apg12 almost completely .	result
The Apg5K130R mutant was unable to be conjugated ( KR27 ) ,	result
confirming our previous observation that Lys130 is an acceptor residue for Apg12 conjugation ( Mizushima et al . 1998b ) .	implication
GFP-fused Apg5 was expressed ( GFP24 ) at a similar level as in wild-type cells ,	result
most of which is conjugated with Apg12 .	fact

We then asked if p66shcWT stimulates the rac1-specific GEF activity of sos1.	goal
With transfection of sos1, eps8, and e3b1, the GEF activity of immunoprecipitated sos1 was twofold greater in lysates from p66shc +/+ than -/- MEF (Fig. 1 B).	result
Expression of p66shcWT, but not -CH2, in p66shc -/- MEF, restored the rac1-specific GEF activity of sos1 to that in p66shc +/+ MEF.	result
These findings suggest that p66shc regulates the rac1-specific GEF activity of sos1.	implication

We intended	goal
to evaluate the role of NIK in TNFR-I and LTbetaR signaling with the use of in vivo mouse models , rather than introducing enforced gene-expression systems	goal
To this end , we transfected EFs ( which express both TNFR-I and LTbetaR ) only with a reporter plasmid	method
that has three repeats of the NF-kappaB site upstream of a minimal thymidine kinase promoter and a luciferase gene	method
EFs from both wild-type and aly mice showed upregulation of luciferase activity in response to human TNF ( Fig . 2 A ) .	result
The normal level of TNF responsiveness in aly mice is consistent with the results shown above ( Fig . 1 ) .	result
In contrast to TNF stimulation , NF-kappaB activation in response to agonistic anti-LTbetaR mAb was significantly reduced in aly mouse EFs , indicating	result
that NIK is involved in LTbetaR signaling ( Fig . 2 A	implication

Wnt5a protein inhibits Wnt3a signaling at the earliest time points following reporter activation .	result
When cells are pretreated with Wnt3a protein for 1 or 3 h prior to Wnt5a treatment	result
, Wnt5a can inhibit Wnt3a-induced reporter activation within 1 h of exposure ( Figure 1D ) .	result
In addition , Wnt5a pretreatment of cells for 8 h followed by washing has no effect on either Wnt3a-induced STF reporter activation or Wnt5a-mediated inhibition , suggesting	result
that Wnt5a does not induce the accumulation of an inhibitory factor ( Figure 1E )	implication
These data taken together indicate	implication
that purified Wnt5a protein is sufficient to rapidly inhibit canonical Wnt signaling in a potentially post-translational fashion	implication

To study phosphorylation of the MDC1 SDTD region and to investigate its regulation	goal
, we raised a rabbit polyclonal antiserum against a synthetic peptide corresponding to one of the MDC1 SDTD repeats phosphorylated on Ser 329 and Thr 331 ( supplementary Fig S1A online ) .	method
This detected	result
MDC1 isolated from HeLa nuclear extracts , indicating that MDC1 S329/T331 phosphorylation is present in proliferating human cells ( Fig 2A , left panels )	result
The signal from this antibody was lost	result
when MDC1 precipitated with gammaH2AX peptide-coupled beads was treated with phosphatase , confirming its phospho-specificity ( Fig 2A , left panels ; detection of RAD50 indicates equal protein loading )	result
Interestingly ,	result
although gamma-irradiation of osteosarcoma ( U2OS ) cells caused little change in the amount of MDC1 S329/T331 phosphorylation	result
This suggests	implication
that , after DNA damage , S329/T331-phosphorylated MDC1 is more stable than the unmodified protein	implication
Consistent with these data , S329/T331-phosphorylated MDC1 was detected	result
by immunofluorescence in both control and gamma-irradiated cells ( Fig 2B ; note the absence of staining in cells treated with MDC1 small interfering RNA ( siRNA ) ) , confirming that SDTD-phosphorylated MDC1 is present in the absence of damage and also forms IRIF	implication
Notably , we did not detect any cell-cycle-dependent alteration of MDC1 S329/T331 phosphorylation relative to total MDC1 protein content by	result
using flow cytometry , which suggests that SDTD phosphorylation occurs throughout interphase ( supplementary Fig S1B online )	result

PI3K , PLC , and c-Src are known effectors of VEGF signalling in endothelial cells and	fact
previous studies have suggested that AMPK stimulation is downstream of PI3K and c-Src activation in peroxynitrite- and metformin-treated BAECs [ 16,19 ] .	implication
In the current study , inhibition of either PI3K or c-Src had no effect on VEGF-stimulated AMPK activity in HAECs ,	result
suggesting that neither PI3K nor c-Src mediate VEGF-stimulated AMPK activation ( Fig . 2A ) .	implication
Preincubation with U73122 completely inhibited VEGF-stimulated AMPK activity ( Fig . 2 ) ,	result
suggesting that VEGF stimulates AMPK in a PLC-dependent manner .	implication
Similarly , histamine has previously been reported to activate AMPK in HUVECs in a PI3K-independent , PLC-dependent manner [ 20 ] .	result

The results presented above indicated	implication
that activation of p42/p44 MAPK cascade was both required	implication
and sufficient for inducing p42/p44 MAPK nuclear translocation .	implication
p42/ p44 MAPK activation results from its dual phosphorylation by MEK ( 1 , 10 , 47 ) .	fact
This reversible phosphorylation could explain the reversible nuclear localization of p42/ p44 MAPK .	hypothesis
However , we and others have previously shown	result
that nonphosphorylatable and inactive mutants of p42/p44 MAPK can still translocate into the nucleus .	result
Thus , activation of p42/p44 MAPK must modify either its interactions with partner proteins and/or the cell physiology	hypothesis
to induce nuclear accumulation of p42/p44 MAPK .	hypothesis
First , we evaluated	goal
whether the activation of transcription induced by p42/p44 MAPK activation and the resulting neosynthesized proteins contribute to nuclear retention of MAPK .	goal
As illustrated in Fig . 4 C	result
, inhibition of protein synthesis with 30 mug/ml cycloheximide ( CHX ) completely blocks the nuclear localization of p42/p44 MAPK after a 3-h serum stimulation ( Fig . 4 , compare B and C ) .	result
Identical results were obtained	result
when nuclear translocation of p42/p44 MAPK was induced with activation of the chimera DeltaRaf-1 : ER ( data not shown ) .	result

Although we show that Wnt5a protein can inhibit canonical Wnt signaling , the question remains of	hypothesis
whether Wnt5a can activate Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in mammalian systems	hypothesis
Multiple Fz receptors , including mFz4 , mFz6 , mFz7 , and mFz8 , were assayed for their ability	method
to transduce Wnt5a-mediated canonical Wnt signaling ( unpublished data )	method
We found that Wnt5a could indeed activate Wnt/beta-catenin signaling when cells overexpressed mFz4	result
; none of the other overexpressed receptors could transduce the Wnt5a signal .	result
Western blot analysis of cytosolic extracts probed for beta-catenin ( Figure 4A ) shows	result
that while Wnt5a has no effect on cytosolic beta-catenin levels in the parental 293 cell line , Wnt5a can induce modest beta-catenin accumulation in cells stably expressing a FLAG-tagged mFz4 construct ( 293Fz4 )	result
These results are in accordance with observations by Umbhauer et al .	result
[ 41 ]	result
that coinjection of Xwnt5a RNA with Xfz4 RNA leads to the synergistic activation of Wnt/beta-catenin target genes in Xenopus animal caps	result

It is important to note that abnormal lymphoid organogenesis in IKKalpha-deficient mice is not due to defective receptor activator of NF-kappaB ( RANK ) signaling , because mice deficient in RANK have PPs despite their lack of peripheral LNs 27	implication
; RANK activates NF-kappaB by recruiting TRAF6 , which has not been observed to associate with LTbetaR 1617 .	result
It remains possible , however ,	hypothesis
that there exist other undefined NIK-IKKalpha-activating receptor pathways involved in lymphoid organogenesis beyond LTbetaR	hypothesis

Because TRF2 overexpression blunted several cellular responses that depend ( in part ) on the ATM kinase	result
, we determined TRF2 's effect on the activation of ATM itself .	result
Phosphorylation of ATM on S1981 , an early and essential step in the activation of this kinase , can be detected rapidly after IR ,	result
even when a low level of DNA damage is induced ( Bakkenist and Kastan 2003 ) .	result
To test whether TRF2 affected the autophosphorylation of ATM , the two proteins were expressed in 293T cells	goal
and ATM was activated with low doses of IR .	method
TRF2 inhibited the activation of ATM as monitored by	result
immunoblotting with an antibody specific for ATM S1981-P ( Figure 3A ) .	result
The relative level of ATM S1981-P ( normalized to total ATM protein ) at 0.3 Gy was 49 % of the vector control value ( p	result
= 0.002	result
, Student 's t test ; n = 7 ) .	result
The TRF2 paralog TRF1 , which also binds the duplex telomeric repeats , did not have a significant effect on ATM activation , demonstrating	result
that the effect on ATM is specific to TRF2 ( Figure 3A ) .	result
Overexpression of TRF2 also diminished the IR-induced ATM autophosphorylation of endogenous ATM in IMR90 fibroblasts to 55 % of vector control value at 0.3 Gy and 60 % of vector control value at 0.6 Gy ( Figure 3B ) .	result

The essential role of IKKalpha in LTbetaR signaling was examined by investigation of lymphoid organogenesis in IKKalpha-deficient mice .	method
Because IKKalpha-deficient mice show perinatal death associated with abnormal limb and skin development	result
, lymphoid organogenesis in IKKalpha-deficient mice was assessed by the development of PP from 18.5 d.p.c .	method
embryos .	method
PP formation in control embryos ( n = 8 ) was easily detected by whole-mount immunohistochemistry with mAb against VCAM-1 ( Fig . 3 A )	result
; VCAM-1+ cells accumulate at the site of PP development starting from 15.5 d.p.c .	result
and can be used as a stromal marker for PP formation 21 .	result
In contrast , no PP formation was detected in intestines isolated from IKKalpha-deficient embryos ( n	result
= 7	result
A similar lack of VCAM-1+ cell accumulation in embryonic intestines has been demonstrated in aly mice 21 .	result
This result shows	implication
that LTbetaR signaling is fundamentally impaired in IKKalpha-deficient mice	implication
Together , these findings are important in providing clear evidence	implication
that IKKalpha is involved in cytokine receptor signaling in vivo	implication

Standard readouts for the activity of various Wnt family members include an increase in the level of the beta-catenin protein and the activation of reporter genes , in particular , the Topflash reporter	fact
that contains TCF binding sites upstream of a luciferase transgene	fact
We found	result
that when transiently transfected into 293 cells , the SuperTopflash ( STF ) luciferase reporter variant [ 30 ] is robustly activated in response to Wnt3a treatment and exhibits dose-dependency	result
As shown in Figure1B , Wnt3a protein treatment induces a 100-fold increase in reporter activation and a linear dose response	result
when the concentration is lowered	result
In accordance with other groups , we observe that Wnt5a protein by itself does not lead to the activation of the STF reporter in 293 cells	result
, nor does it alter levels of beta-catenin protein ( Figures 1C and 2A ) [ 16 , 31 ] .	result
Based on reports from Ishitani et al . and others [ 14 , 17 , 32 , 33 ] , we then tested	hypothesis
whether the addition of Wnt5a protein could inhibit Wnt3a-induced reporter activity	hypothesis
Using a concentration of Wnt3a protein within the linear range of reporter activation ( 50 ng/ml )	method
, Wnt5a protein was added to cells concomitantly with Wnt3a .	method
As shown in Figure 1C	result
, Wnt5a elicits a dose-responsive decrease in Wnt3a-mediated reporter activation .	result

In order to probe the functional consequence of SHIP activation , F. novicida-induced	goal
cytokine production was compared in BMMs obtained from SHIP+/+ and SHIP-/- littermate mice .	method
Thus , SHIP+/+ and SHIP-/- BMMs were infected with F. novicida , and	method
cell supernatants from uninfected and infected cells were harvested 8 h post infection and analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) for IL-12 , IL-6 , and RANTES .	method
As seen in Figure 1C	result
, SHIP-/- BMMs produced significantly elevated levels of pro-inflammatory mediators compared to their wild-type counterparts .	result
Similar results were obtained with peritoneal macrophages isolated from SHIP+/+ and SHIP-/- littermates , and indicate	result
that SHIP-deficient macrophages make more IL-12 and IL-6 ( unpublished data ; p < 0.05 ) .	implication
Protein-matched cell lysates from SHIP+/+ and SHIP-/- BMMs were analyzed by Western blotting with SHIP antibody	method
to confirm the genotype of these cells ( Figure 1D ) .	goal
These data indicate	implication
that SHIP is a negative regulator of IL-12 , IL-6 , and RANTES secretion by F. novicida-infected macrophages .	implication

3-MA , a commonly used inhibitor of autophagic sequestration ( Seglen and Gordon 1982 ) , reduced bulk degradation during amino acid deprivation even more markedly	result
than did the disruption of the APG5 gene ( Fig . 3 A ) .	result
Furthermore , the effect of 3-MA was still observed in autophagy-negative APG5-/- cells ,	result
suggesting that 3-MA may have some additional effects on protein degradation other than autophagy .	implication

The results presented above demonstrate	implication
that the sole activation of the p42/p44 MAPK signaling module is sufficient to promote the nuclear localization of p42/p44 MAPK .	implication
In addition , the nuclear localization of p42/p44 MAPK correlates well with the degree of activation of the p42/p44 MAPK pathway .	implication
As long	result
as p42/p44 MAPK activity remains elevated , such as with long-term DeltaRaf-1 : ER stimulation	result
, p42/p44 MAPK remains in the nucleus .	result
On the contrary ,	result
if activation of the p42/p44 MAPK pathway decreases to unstimulated levels , as with long term serum stimulation	result
, p42/p44 MAPK returns to the cytoplasm .	result
We have shown previously	result
that serum removal was sufficient to induce the efflux of p42/p44 MAPK from the nucleus within 1 h ( 27 ) , a result consistent with the present observation .	result

Expression of PAG within hematopoietic cells was further examined by intracellular immunostaining of permeabilized peripheral blood leukocytes .	method
These experiments revealed strong expression of PAG in lymphocytes and monocytes and weak expression in neutrophils ( Fig . 5 B ) .	result
In vitro kinase assay and Western blot analysis indicated	result
that PAG is also expressed in platelets ( not shown ) .	result

We find that , similar to other Wnt proteins that we have purified , the Wnt5a protein is hydrophobic	result
as it requires detergent to stay in solution and partitions in a detergent phase when subjected to extraction ( unpublished data ) [ 27 ]	result
We presume that the protein , like Wnt3a , is modified by the covalent attachment of a palmitate	hypothesis
, but we have not examined this further .	problem
that is modified by palmitoylation in Wnt3a	fact

We confirmed the physical interaction between RagA and RagC ( data not shown ) .	result
The relationship between RagA and RagC in S6K phosphorylation was further investigated .	goal
As shown in Fig . 2b	result
, RagA T21N dominantly inhibited S6K phosphorylation regardless of the nucleotide binding status of the co-expressed RagC .	result
Moreover , RagA Q66L dominantly activated S6K phosphorylation regardless of the nucleotide binding status of the co-transfected RagC .	result
Notably , RagA T21N and RagC S75N were poorly expressed	result
when they were transfected alone	result
However , when they were co-transfected with either wild type or mutant versions of RagC or RagA , the expression levels were markedly increased ( Fig . 2b ) ,	result
suggesting dimer formation stabilizes the dominant negative mutants of RagA and RagC , which are unstable	implication

We find that , similar to other Wnt proteins that we have purified , the Wnt5a protein is hydrophobic	implication
as it requires detergent to stay in solution and partitions in a detergent phase when subjected to extraction ( unpublished data ) [ 27 ]	implication
We presume that the protein , like Wnt3a , is modified by the covalent attachment of a palmitate	fact
, but we have not examined this further .	fact
Significantly , the cysteine residue	none
that is modified by palmitoylation in Wnt3a	none

Wnt5a 's inhibitory activity was also tested in another cell line , mouse L cells .	method
Whereas Wnt5a protein treatment in parental 293 cells robustly inhibits the Wnt3a-mediated activation of the STF reporter	result
, Wnt5a treatment has little to no inhibitory affect in L cells ( Figure 6B ) .	result
To assess whether this is due to reduced expression of mRor2	goal
, L cells were transfected with mRor2 and then treated with Wnt proteins .	method
As	result
shown in Figure 6B , when mRor2 is overexpressed	result
Again , mRor2 expression has no inhibitory effect on Wnt3a-stimulated reporter activation in the absence of Wnt5a .	result
Although Wnt5a is able to activate the luciferase reporter in L cells stably expressing mFz4 and transiently transfected with LRP5	result
, mRor2 cotransfection effectively inhibits Wnt5a 's canonical signaling ability ( Figure 6B ) .	result

The full-length Tiam1 protein ( FL1591 ) carries a consensus myristoylation sequence at the NH2 terminus .	fact
By labeling with [ 3H ] myristate , we have confirmed	result
that the NH2 terminus of Tiam1 is myristoylated ( not shown )	result
To test whether the myristoylation is sufficient for the membrane association of full-length Tiam1	goal
, a small deletion was also made in the NH2-terminal PH domain of full-length FL1591 Tiam1 .	method
However ,	result
similar to C1199-DeltaPHn , mutant fulllength Tiam1 ( FL1591-DeltaPHn ) was unable to induce membrane ruffling in NIH3T3 cells or COS cells ( Fig . 6 , C and D )	result
Apparently , the NH2-terminal myristoylation of full-length Tiam1 alone is not sufficient for membrane localization .	result
To further substantiate this	goal
, the NH2-terminal c-Src sequences were fused in front of the FL1591-DeltaPHn1 Tiam1 protein .	method
This region of Src contains a basic region that is required for optimal membrane translocation in addition to the myristoylation sequence ,	fact
whereas other Src-like tyrosine kinases contain a palmitoylated cysteine in this region ( Superti-Furga and Courtneidge , 1995 )	fact
Both additional sequences are absent in Tiam1 .	fact
Cells expressing the MS-FL1591-DeltaPHn1 Tiam1 protein again showed membrane ruffling , although less extensive than cells expressing FL1591 Tiam1 ( Fig . 6 , C-E ) .	result
Again , no main differences in expression levels were observed between these proteins ( data not shown ) .	result
Immuno-EM confirmed	result
that the MS-FL1591-DeltaPHn1 Tiam1 protein was present at and close to the plasma membrane , as found for MS-C580 Tiam1 ( data not shown )	result
Apparently , the accessory basic region of c-Src also functions	fact
to properly localize MS-FL1591DeltaPHn1 Tiam1	fact
Similar to MS-C580 , the expression of MSFL1591-DeltaPHn Tiam1 led to the formation of small cytoplasmic vesicle-like structures	result
, and the protein was also located around these structures ( Fig . 6 E ) .	result
These observations indicate	implication
that the NH2-terminal PH domain also serves as an essential membrane tag , or perhaps membrane anchor , for full-length Tiam1	implication

To determine whether Wnt5a protein can inhibit Wnt3a-mediated STF reporter activation in 293Fz4 cells , 293 and 293Fz4 cells were transiently transfected with the STF reporter and then treated with Wnt proteins over the course of 24 h.	goal
Whereas Wnt5a protein potently inhibits the STF reporter in parental 293 cells , Wnt5a no longer inhibits Wnt3a-induced reporter activation in 293Fz4 cells ( Figure 4C )	result
This effect was specific to mFz4 ,	result
as stable expression of mFz8 was not sufficient to abrogate Wnt5a-mediated inhibition of STF reporter activation ( Figure 4D )	result
Additionally , Wnt5a does not stabilize beta-catenin protein in the presence of mFz8 ( unpublished data ) .	result
Thus , specifically in the context of mFz4 and LRP5 expression , Wnt5a is unable	implication
to inhibit Wnt3a-mediated beta-catenin signaling	implication

Rheb was also isolated in our screen .	result
It is worth	result
noting that Rheb knockdown reproducibly caused a stronger inhibition of S6K phosphorylation than dRagA and dRagC ( Fig . 1a ) , consistent with the notion	result
Knockdown of several other GTPases , such as Rab5 and Ran , also decreased dS6K phosphorylation .	result
However , knockdown of Rab5 and Ran significantly decreased cell numbers as well ( data not shown ) ,	result
indicating a general effect of these GTPases on cell proliferation/apoptosis	implication
Therefore , we focused our efforts on the Rag GTPases .	goal

To further establish the Rac1 targeting to a beta-Pix-GIT-paxillin complex,	goal
we performed GST-Rac1 pull-down experiments with lysates of COS-7 cells	method
and found that endogenous paxillin associates with Rac1 (Fig. 5 A).	result
This interaction is inhibited by the Rac1 COOH-terminal peptide but not by the Rac2 COOH-terminal peptide or by a control peptide (Fig. 5 A).	result
Furthermore, we observed that GST-Rac1DeltaC no longer associates with endogenous paxillin or PKL/GIT (Fig. 5 B).	result
These data indicate that FA targeting of Rac1 is mediated by the beta-Pix-GIT-paxillin complex and is dependent on the Rac1 COOH terminus.	implication
In line with this result,	implication
we found that V12Rac1 localizes to paxillin-containing FAs in spreading HEK293 cells,	result
which is in contrast to the V12Rac1 P-A mutant (Fig. 5 C).	fact
Interestingly, the distribution of FAs in spreading cells that express V12Rac1 P-A appeared disorganized compared with the cells expressing V12Rac1.	result
Moreover, the V12Rac1 P-A mutant showed no discrete localization in these cells,	result
suggesting that the targeting of Rac1 to FAs requires their proper organization as well as an intact Rac1 COOH terminus.	implication

We demonstrated that the activation of the MAPK pathway closely parallels to the nuclear translocation of p42/p44 MAPK ;	implication
therefore , it was essential to verify that CHX did not abrogate p42/p44 MAPK activity , since this would explain the inhibition of nuclear translocation .	goal

To determine whether Wnt5a mediates its inhibitory effects through the mRor2 receptor , 293 cells stably expressing the full-length mRor2 receptor ( 293mRor2 ) were treated with Wnt proteins over the course of 24 h.	goal
As shown in Figure 5A , Wnt3a protein treatment robustly activates the STF reporter in the presence of mRor2	result
However , at every time point measured , Wnt5a protein-mediated inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling is synergistically enhanced by mRor2 overexpression as compared to the parental cell line (	result
compare to Figure 4C and see Figure S1	result

We observed some autophagosome-like structures in amino acid-starved APG5-/- cells ( Fig . 2 ) .	result
We thus determined	goal
whether LC3 normally localized to these membranes .	goal
In amino acid-starved wild-type ES cells , LC3 staining was observed on both inner and outer membranes of autophagosomes ( Fig . 8A and Fig .	result
B ) and isolation membranes ( C ) , as well as in the cytosol .	result
However , no LC3 staining was detected on the autophagosome-like structures in APG5-/- cells ( Fig . 8D and Fig .	result
In immunofluorescence microscopy , large dots of LC3 staining were not observed in starved APG5-/- cells ( data not shown ) , in contrast to wild-type cells ( Fig . 5 C ) .	result
We also examined the localization of LC3 in the GKR-1 clone .	goal
While GFP-Apg5K130R localized to punctate spots as mentioned above	result
, LC3 did not colocalize with the GFP-Apg5K130R spots and retained its cytoplasmic staining during starvation ( Fig . 5 H ) .	result
Taken together , these results suggest	implication
that Apg5 and its modification with Apg12 play important roles in recruitment of LC3 to isolation membranes .	implication

Since the expression of GEM-associated pp80 was found to be highest in the B cell line Raji	result
, GEMs were isolated from 7 x 108 Raji cells and subjected to two-dimensional gel electrophoresis .	method
An acidic spot of 75-85 kD was detected by silver staining ( Fig . 2 A ) and verified by antiphosphotyrosine staining of a corresponding blot ( not shown ) .	result
This spot was excised and digested in-gel with trypsin , and	method
resulting peptides were sequenced by Nano ES MS/MS ( Fig . 2 B ) .	method
Database searching hit	result
two peptides encoded by the EST clones AA960867 , AA622656 ( LLDENENLQEK ) , and AA220201 ( FSSLSYK ) , respectively .	result
Reverse and forward primers deduced from EST clone AA220201 were used for 5 ' and	method
3 ' RACE experiments to amplify the rest of the corresponding gene from human leukocyte cDNA .	method
The sequence corresponding to the very 5 ' end of the gene was finally obtained by 5 ' RACE performed on cDNA obtained from Raji RNA .	method

ACC is phosphorylated by AMPK at Ser80 in ACC1 and Ser220 in ACC2 ( human sequence ) .	fact
Using an antibody that recognises both phosphorylated species , we demonstrated that VEGF stimulates phosphorylation of ACC	result
, an effect completely inhibited in HAECs infected with Ad.alpha1DN ( Fig . 4 ) .	result
These data indicate	result
that infection with Ad.alpha1DN completely inhibits VEGF-stimulated AMPK activity .	result
We were unable	result
to distinguish whether the band represented ACC1 , ACC2 or both .	result
Inhibition of ACC1/ACC2 by phosphorylation at Ser80/Ser221 has been demonstrated	result
to inhibit fatty acid synthesis in adipose tissue and liver whilst stimulating fatty acid oxidation in heart and skeletal muscle [ 11 ] .	result
Activation of AMPK with AICAR has been shown to stimulate fatty acid oxidation in HUVECs [ 23 ] , so	result
it remains possible that VEGF transiently stimulates fatty acid oxidation due to AMPK-mediated phosphorylation of ACC .	hypothesis

TLRs play an important role in B cell activation 29-31 .	fact
In response to TLR signals , B cells express costimulatory molecules and increase the expression of MHCII molecules ,	fact
thus enhancing their ability to activate helper T cells	fact
To examine whether Peli1 is involved in TLR-mediated B cell activation	goal
, we analyzed the effect of Peli1 deficiency on the activation of B cells derived from Peli1+/+ and Peli1-/- mice .	method
As expected	result
, stimulation of Peli1+/+ B cells with several TLR ligands ( LPS , poly ( I : C ) , PGN , CpG ) led to potent induction of the costimulatory molecule CD86 ( Fig . 3a , left panels , black line ) as well as enhanced expression of MHCII ( Fig . 3a , right panels , black line ) .	result
Induction of these genes was also detected in cells stimulated with antibodies	result
that crosslink IgM and CD40	result
Induction of both CD86 and MHCII by LPS was attenuated in Peli1-/- B cells ( Fig . 3a ) .	result
The inhibitory effect of Peli1 deficiency on CD86 and MHCII induction was even more profoundly seen in B cells stimulated with the TLR3 ligand , poly ( I : C ) ( Fig . 3a ) .	result
On the other hand , loss of Peli1 had no effect on the induction of CD86 and MHCII by several other TLR ligands , including PGN and CpG ( Fig . 3a ) as well as Pam3CSK4 , MALP2 , and R837 ( Supplementary Fig . 5 and data not shown ) .	result
Furthermore , Peli1 was dispensable for the induction of CD86 and MHCII by anti-IgM and anti-CD40 .	result
Thus , Peli1 is required for CD86 and MHCII induction specifically by TLR3 and TLR4 signals .	implication

To further characterize the Rac1-beta-Pix interaction,	goal
we performed pull-down assays with purified GST-Rac1, GST-Rac1DeltaC (a Rac1 COOH-terminal deletion mutant; Haeusler et al., 2003),	method
and purified beta-Pix in the absence or presence of the Rac1 COOH-terminal peptide or, as a control, the Pak-Crib peptide.	method
Indeed, GST-Rac1 but not GST-Rac1DeltaC binds to beta-Pix (Fig. 2	result
Moreover, the binding between Rac1 and beta-Pix was blocked by the Rac1 COOH-terminal peptide but not by a control peptide or the Pak1-Crib peptide (Fig. 2 A).	result
These data show that the interaction between full-length Rac1 and beta-Pix is direct and is mediated via the COOH terminus of Rac1 but not via its effector lo	implication

TLR signals also induce the proliferation of B cells 31 .	fact
Consistently , the proliferation of Peli1+/+ B cells was stimulated by a panel of TLR ligands as well as by IgM and CD40	result
crosslinking ( Fig . 3b )	result
As seen with the induction of CD86 and MHCII expression , the induction of proliferation by LPS and poly ( I : C ) was severely inhibited in Peli1-/- B cells .	result
This effect was again more profound for poly ( I : C ) .	result
We detected a partial inhibition of CpG- and Pam3CSK4-induced proliferation in Peli1-/- B cells ( Fig . 3b ) .	result
This effect was , however , not generic for all MyD88-binding TLRs ,	implication
since loss of Peli1 did not inhibit the induction of B cell proliferation by R837 , MALP2 , or PGN ( Fig . 3b )	result
Peli1 deficiency did not affect proliferation induced by IgM or CD40 crosslinking .	result
In fact , we repeatedly detected enhanced proliferation of PGN- and anti-CD40-stimulated Peli1-/- B cells ,	result
although it is currently unclear how Peli1 negatively regulates the signaling of these pathways	implication

The Drosophila larval fat body is involved in TOR-dependent nutrient sensing as well as in	fact
relaying a nutritional response during development37	fact
We thus examined the role of dRagA in cell size regulation in this tissue on regular food or after 48-hour amino acid starvation .	method
Under starvation conditions , clonal overexpression of wild type dRagA resulted in a modest increase in individual cell size ,	result
whereas expression of constitutively active dRagA Q61L resulted in a dramatic 3-fold increase in cell size compared to neighboring cells under starvation conditions ( Fig . 4c , d )	result
Interestingly , however , expression of wild type and dRagA Q61L had little effect on cell size under normal fed conditions ( Fig . 4c ) , consistent with a specific effect of dRagA in nutrient response .	result
Furthermore , expression of dRagA T16N potently decreased cell size , and	result
this effect was visible only under nutrient sufficiency but not under nutrient starvation ( Fig . 4c , d )	result
Together , these data are consistent with the effect of RagA on S6K phosphorylation observed in mammalian cells (	implication
active RagA increases S6K in amino acid free medium and dominant negative RagA inhibits S6K in rich medium	result

Having identified cellular signaling events activated by F. novicida infection	method
, we next examined the influence of SHIP on these events .	goal
For this ,	method
BMMs from SHIP+/+ and SHIP-/- littermate mice were infected with F. novicida for the times indicated in Figure 4	method
, and activation of MAPKs and Akt was analyzed .	method
Infection by F. novicida induced robust phosphorylation of Erk1/2 , JNK , p38 , and Akt .	result
However , SHIP+/+ and SHIP-/- BMMs displayed no significant differences in the activation of the MAPKs at any of the time points tested .	result
On the other hand , SHIP-/- BMMs showed enhanced phosphorylation of Akt compared to SHIP+/+ BMMs .	result
These results indicate	implication
that although SHIP may not regulate F. novicida-induced activation of the MAPKs , SHIP down-regulates activation of Akt .	implication
Together , these data suggest	implication
that the PI3K/Akt pathway may play a critical role in F. novicida-induced macrophage pro-inflammatory responses .	implication

The cytoplasmic domain of PAG contains a potential palmitoylation site ( CSSC ) directly adjacent to the transmembrane domain .	fact
To determine whether PAG is palmitoylated in vivo	goal
, Raji B cells were biosynthetically labeled with 3 [ H ] palmitate , lysed in laurylmaltoside-containing buffer , and subjected to anti-PAG immunoprecipitation .	method
As shown in Fig . 6 C	result
, PAG is expressed as a palmitoylated polypeptide .	result
Identical results were obtained in Jurkat T cells ( not shown ) ,	result
although the radioactive signal was much weaker than in Raji cells ( obviously because Jurkat cells express much lower amounts of PAG ) .	result

We next examined	hypothesis
whether internalization of bacteria is a requisite for the down-regulatory influence of SHIP on F. novicida-induced cytokine/chemokine production .	hypothesis
For this ,	method
cells were treated with cytochalasin D , an actin polymerization inhibitor , prior to infection	method
, and cell supernatants were assayed for the secretion of IL-12 , IL-6 , and RANTES by ELISA .	method
The results are shown in Figure 2D-2F .	result
The release of RANTES and the negative influence of SHIP on RANTES production were not influenced by failure of internalization .	result
However , treatment of either SHIP+/+ or SHIP-/- BMM with cytochalasin D significantly suppressed the release of IL-12 and IL-6 ,	result
suggesting that either internalization of bacteria or actin cytoskeletal rearrangements are essential for the secretion of these two cytokines .	result
Failure of internalization of F. novicida did not influence the activation of either the MAPK or the PI3K/Akt pathways ( unpublished data ) ,	result
suggesting that surface contact of Francisella bacteria is sufficient to trigger the signaling response .	implication

We found	result
that five bait phosphopeptides had Grb2 and Shc as common binding partners	result
However , in all five cases , the bait peptide contained overlapping binding motifs for Grb2 and Shc (	result
Furthermore , the experiments were carried out in cells	method
that were not especially stimulated with growth factor ( even though they were grown in the presence of serum )	method
most signal-dependent multi-protein complexes are not present	implication
Therefore , the identification of Grb2 in our pull-down experiments is most likely due	hypothesis
to direct binding and not indirect binding as an interaction partner of Shc	hypothesis
For the above reasons , we believe	hypothesis
that our experiments generally yield the direct or primary phosphotyrosine interactome rather than protein complexes	hypothesis

Next , we used the recombinant , purified MRN complex in peptide pull-down experiments .	method
These showed	result
that MRN bound to the phosphorylated but not the unphosphorylated form of the SDTD peptide -- confirming the direct nature of the interaction -- yet did not bind to either version of the H2AX C-terminal peptide ( Fig 3A )	result
This indicates the specificity of MRN for the phosphorylated MDC1 SDTD motif and also shows	implication
that if , as previously reported , NBS1 binds to gammaH2AX directly ( Kobayashi et al , 2002 ) , this interaction must be less stable than MRN binding to the phosphorylated SDTD motif	result

At this stage, we cannot formally exclude that an unknown GEF, coprecipitating with Sos-1, is responsible for the observed activity.	hypothesis
However, such a hypothetical protein should not only be associated with Sos-1, but also be active only in the presence of Eps8 and E3b1,	hypothesis
which are both required for the formation of the trimeric complex endowed with Rac-specific GEF activity (Scita et al., 1999),	fact
making this possibility unlikely.	hypothesis
It is reasonable, therefore, to propose that Sos-1 alone (or complexed with proteins, such as Grb2) is endowed with Ras-GEF activity.	hypothesis
However, upon interaction with Eps8 and E3b1, its specificity is switched toward Rac.	hypothesis

However ,	result
when cells were left for 3 h on fibronectin before fixing and staining	result
Surrounding the cells were small , hair-like actin fibers	result
that characterize cells in the early stages of apolar migration ( Fig . 3 g )	result
The PTP-PEST ( +/- ) cells , in contrast , were rounded , with well-defined edges and fewer focal contacts concentrated at the cell periphery ( Fig . 3 , e and f ) .	result
The ( -/- ) cells also contained a higher number of stress fibers , a state	result
that is incompatible with cell migration	implication
A quantitative evaluation of the number of focal adhesions after 3 h , as counted on vinculin-staining photographs , is shown in Fig .	result
3 i. PTP-PEST ( -/- ) cells have , on average , > 85 focal contacts per cell , compared with ~25 in a ( +/- ) cell	result
Thus , the migration defect observed in the wound healing assay above may be in part due to disregulation of focal adhesion assembly and/or disassembly in the PTP-PEST cell lines .	implication

To demonstrate that beta-Pix also binds full-length Rac1,	goal
Rac1, we expressed either beta-Pix or Rac1 in COS-7 cells and performed reciprocal pull-down assays with bacterially purified GST, GST-Rac1, or GST-beta-Pix (Fig. 1 C).	method
These experiments showed that beta-Pix interacts with the full-length Rac1 protein and, conversely, that bacterially purified full-length Rac1 binds beta-P	implication

The indispensability of E3b1 in the cascade of events leading to Rac activation and Rac-dependent actin reorganization was further analyzed at the biological level.	goal
We have previously shown that interference with E3b1 functions, by microinjection of anti-E3b1 antibodies, inhibited PDGF-induced ruffles (Scita et al. 1999).	result
We also showed that in eps8-/- cells, ruffling induced by PDGF and activated Ras, but not by activated Rac, was inhibited.	result
Ruffling, however, could be restored upon reexpression of Eps8, but not of an Eps8 mutant unable to bind to E3b1 (Scita et al., 1999),	result
suggesting that the Eps8-E3b1-based complex is implicated in the transmission of signal between Ras and Rac.	implication
Thus, one might predict that a mutant of E3b1 unable to associate to Eps8 should function as a dominant negative on Ras-induced Rac-dependent ruffling.	hypothesis
To test this,	goal
we cotransfected the activated versions of either Ras or Rac, together with E3b1 or the E3b1DY mutant.	method
RasV12-induced, but not RacQL-induced, ruffles were	result
efficiently inhibited by the coexpression of E3b1DY, but not of E3b1 wild type (Fig. 6),	result
supporting the contention that the ability of E3b1 to form a complex with Eps8 is required to transmit signals from Ras to Rac.	implication
In conclusion, our data show that two pools of Sos-1 exist in the cell, coupled respectively to Grb2 or E3b1.	implication
In addition, the availability of E3b1, but not of Sos-1, is indispensable and rate limiting in the pathway leading to Rac activation.	implication

